THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

‘WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of -
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

The Georgia Department of Public Health has determined that
COVID-19 is spreading throughout Georgia’s communities; and

The number of COVID-19 cases in Georgia continues to rise; and

Strict compliance with the provisions of Georgia law governing
driver’s licenses, the operations of the Georgia Department of Driver
Services and its facilities, and certain other provisions related to
motor vehicles and the operation thereof would prevent, hinder, or
delay necessary action in coping with this disaster in all counties of
our state; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

In consultation with the Governor's Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents and
visitors.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

NOw, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51 AND THE
AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the expiration dates for all valid Georgia driver’s licenses and
identification cards, for citizens and non-citizens alike, that are due
to expire between the date of this Order through June 30, 2020 are
hereby extended by 120 days.

IT IS FURTHER

That the provision of Code Section 40-5-20 requiring residents of
Georgia who have recently moved from other states to obtain Georgia
driver’s licenses is hereby suspended and new applications from
these residents shall not be processed until the Public Health State
of Emergency declared in Executive Order 03.14.20.01 or any
extension thereof has ended. All other provisions and requirements
of Code Section 40-5-20 shall remain in effect and are unchanged by
this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That the provision of Code Section 42-8-112(c) requiring “each
resident of this state who is required to have an ignition interlock
device installed pursuant to this article shall report to the provider
center every 30 days for the purpose of monitoring the operation of
each required ignition interlock device” is hereby suspended. It is
hereby ordered that each resident of this state who is required to
have an ignition interlock device installed pursuant to Article 7 of the
Georgia Code shall report to the provider center every 60 days for the
purpose of monitoring the operation of each required ignition
interlock device. All other provisions and requirements of Code
Section 48-8-112(c) remain unchanged by this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That law enforcement officers issuing a temporary driving permit to
a driver pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 40-5-67.1(()
shall issue such temporary driving permit to be valid for a period of
135 days. All other provisions and requirements of Code Section 40-
5-67.1(f)(1) remain unchanged by this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That any person whose driver’s license is suspended or who is
disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to
Code Section 4.0-5-67.1 during this Public Health State of Emergency
shall have 120 days from the date of personal notice or receipt of
notice sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to request

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

a hearing. All other provisions and requirements of Code Section 40-
5-67.1(g)(1) remain unchanged by this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order
shall be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia
Constitution, in violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any
respect, such invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this
Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained within the
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. Ifthe
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order
No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry forward with
the Public Health State of Emergency until such state of
emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the
Governor.

this ZS day of March 2020, at [2% / 7 am)

6 Pl

GOVERNOR
