EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

EXPANDING TEMPORARY LICENSING OF CERTAIN MEDICAL PROFESSIONS
TO ASSIST THE STATE’S RESPONSE TO THE SPREAD OF COVID-19

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State
of Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a

Public Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

The number of COVID-19 cases in Georgia continues to rise; and

Strict compliance with the provisions of Georgia law which prohibit
the practice of medicine and surgery, osteopathic medicine and
surgery, with an inactive or lapsed license would prevent, hinder, or
delay necessary action in coping with this disaster in all counties of
our state; and

The availability of registered nurses and practical nurses in Georgia
is critical to the ability of healthcare facilities and providers to
respond to this public health emergency; and

Code Section 38-3-5i(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

In consultation with the Governor's Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents and
visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51 AND THE
AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT 1S HEREBY

That the regulatory provisions of Code Section 43-1-4 and Ga. Comp.
R. & Regs. r. 360-2-.05(2), Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 360-2-.05(4), Ga.
Comp. R. & Regs. r. 360-2-.06, and all other implementing
administrative rules which prohibit the practice of medicine,
surgery, osteopathic medicine, and osteopathic surgery, by a licensee
whose license is inactive or lapsed shall not be enforced. Suspension
of these provisions is limited to licenses which have lapsed or expired
within the five (5) years prior to this Executive Order, to licenses that
were not subject to pending investigation by a respective licensing
board, and to those licenses that have no history of administrative
action adverse to the licensee. Suspension of these provisions is
further limited to medical treatment of victims of the existing public
health emergency and solely for the duration of this Executive Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Nursing is authorized to grant temporary
licenses to practice under Code Sections 43-26-8 and 43-26-38 to
graduate registered nurses and graduate practical nurses who have
yet to take their respective licensing exam. Temporary licenses shall
allow the graduate registered nurse or graduate practical nurse to
work under a licensed registered nurse or licensed practical nurse
respectively during the Public Health State of Emergency related to
COVID-19 and solely for the duration of this Executive Order.

IT 1S FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order
shall be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia
Constitution, in violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any
respect, such invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this
Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained within the
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. Ifthe
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order
No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry forward with
the Public Health State of Emergency until such state of
emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the
Governor.

This 23'4 day of March 2020, at S ( S& .

aan

GOVERNOR
