THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a
Public Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 15, 2020; and

The number of COVID-19 cases in Georgia continues to rise; and

Certain legal documents for real estate transactions require the in-
person services of a notary public or a witness and such interactions
should be avoided to the maximum extent possible in order to
promote social distancing and the mitigation of the spread of
COVID-19; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of
any state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order,
rule, or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay
necessaty action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Upon consideration, I have determined that the following
temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents and provide a
safe and secure method by which to execute legal documents.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Any purported requirement under the laws of this state that the
attestation of a recordable instrument under Code Sections 44-2-1
et seq. and 45-17-1 et seq. must occur in the physical presence of the
notary public may be satisfied by the use of real-time audio-visual
communication technology or any similar real-time means of
electronic video conferencing that allows the parties to
communicate with each other simultaneously by sight and sound.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement under Code Section 44-2-1 et seq. that an in-
person witness attest or acknowledge an instrument, document, or
deed may be satisfied by the use of real-time audio-video
communication technology or any similar real-time means of
electronic video conferencing that allows all of the parties to
communicate with each other simultaneously by sight and sound.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order
shall be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia
Constitution, in violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in
any respect, such invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall
not affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in such case,
this Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or

unenforceable provision had never been contained within the
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No.
03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such state of emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

4
This 315 day of March 2020 at ) 3 \ A.M.

BP

GOVERNOR
