EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

The sudden onslaught of coronavirus has led to an unprecedented
drop in short-term interest rates, causing the State of Georgia to face
the possibility of unprecedented negative interest rates which pose a
significant threat to the office of State Treasurer; and

Code Section 50-17-50 et seq. limits the State of Georgia to certain
investments which may suffer disproportionate loss during this
public health emergency; and

Flexibility in investment strategy can allow the State to continue to
keep funds invested in high-quality, short-term deposits and
securities which can guard against losses while helping preserve the
public fise; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency, if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA
LAW AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the Office of State Treasurer of the State of Georgia is
authorized to invest funds, through the state treasurer. The state
treasurer shall invest funds as a “prudent investor” under the
prevailing circumstances of this public health crisis with the
objective to maintain liquidity and preserve capital, including
purchasing, at market rates, United States government securities,
repurchase agreements secured by United States government
securities, and United States government money market funds.

IT IS FURTHER

That at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency, the
State Treasurer is directed to resume compliance with Code Sections
50-5a-7(b) and 50-17-50 et seq. as soon as practicable in the manner
that serves the best interests of the State and to provide a report of
such compliance to the State Depository Board no later than thirty
(30) days after conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency

IT 1S FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision
had never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No.
03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such state of emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

&
This 318t day of March 2020 at uy . 2% P.M.

BP

GOVERNOR
