THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State
of Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a
Public Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

The availability of Pharmacy Technicians in Georgia is critical to the
ability of healthcare facilities and providers to respond to this public
health emergency; and

In consultation with the Governor’s Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA
LAW AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the Georgia State Board of Pharmacy (the “Board”) is
authorized and directed to implement the suspension of O.C.G.A. §
26-4-82(c)(2) and Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. 1. 480-15-.03(d)(2), to the

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

extent necessary to allow pharmacy technicians and pharmacists to
complete computer-based processing of prescriptions at alternative
locations, including from the residence of the pharmacy technician
or pharmacist.

IT IS FURTHER

That no laws pertaining to secondary remote entry pharmacies, the
storage of drugs, recordkeeping, or dispensing processes are waived
or limited by this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order
shall be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia
Constitution, in violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any
respect, such invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this
Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained within the
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. Ifthe
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order
No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry forward with
the Public Health State of Emergency until such state of
emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the
Governor.

®
This 318t day of March 2020 at ] ‘ 3 ) P.M.

BL

GOVERNOR
