THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State
of Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a
Public Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

In practicing social distancing in order to mitigate the spread of
COVID-19 many County Tax Assessors have closed operations to the
public; and

In consultation with the State Economist and Commissioner of
Revenue, I have determined that the following temporary actions are
necessary and appropriate to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of Georgia's residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA
LAW AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the Commissioner of Revenue is authorized and directed to
implement the suspension of Code Sections 48-5-7.4G)() and 48-5-
7.7(j)(1) where such suspension would provide that the deadlines for

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Conservation Use Value Assessment and Forest Land Use Protection
Act applications would fall no earlier than June 1, 2020.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Commissioner of Revenue or his designee is authorized and
directed to implement waivers of those rules and regulations
necessary to implement the suspension of Code Sections 48-5-

7.4Q)@) and 48-5-7.7G)(1).
IT IS FURTHER

That the Commissioner of Revenue is authorized and directed to
adopt emergency rules, consistent with the powers granted to the
Commissioner by Code Sections 48-5-7.4(y) and 48-5-7.7(w),
establishing rules and regulations appropriate to implement and
enforce application procedures and deadlines consistent with the
suspension of Code Sections 48-5-7.4G)@) and 48-5-7.7(j)()
becoming effective upon the adoption of such emergency rules.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order
shall be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia
Constitution, in violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any
respect, such invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this
Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had not been included in the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. Ifthe
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order
No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry forward with
the Public Health State of Emergency until such state of
emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the
Governor.

’
This 31°t day of March 2020 at Y ‘ 3 0 pM.

Bf

GOVERNOR
