_ i776 L

THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

Executive Order 04.02.20.01 requires visitors and residents of the
State of Georgia to shelter in place; and

Some persons have sought clarifying guidance on the provisions of
Executive Order 04.02.20.01; and

The Judiciary of the State of Georgia is a separate branch of
government and “shall forever remain separate and distinct; and no
person discharging the duties of one [branch of government] shall at
the same time exercise the functions of either of the others. . .” GA.
CONST. art. I, § 2, { III; and

The Judiciary of the State of Georgia has independent authority to
declare a state of emergency pursuant to Code Section 38-3-60 (see
Chief Justice Harold Melton “Order Declaring Statewide Judicial
Emergency,” SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA, Mar. 14, 2020); and

Powers not expressly suspended by Executive Order 04.02.20.01 are
still in effect, including statutes as well as the orders and decrees of
the Judicial Branch of the State of Georgia; and

Pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51, no statutes carrying a criminal
penalty have been waived or enforcement of such laws suspended by
executive order.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51 AND THE

AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That no provision of Executive Order 04.02.20.01 shall limit,
infringe, suspend, or supplant any judicial order, judgment, or
decree, including custodial arrangements, created pursuant to the
laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision of Executive
Order 04.02.20.01 as a defense to an action in violation of a judicial

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

order, judgment, custodial arrangement, or decree by any court
created pursuant to the laws or constitution of this State or the laws
or constitution of the United States. This paragraph does not
attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that the Governor, in any
instance, has the unilateral authority to overturn any judicial order,

judgment, or decree.
IT IS FURTHER

That the phrase “[e]ngaging in activities essential for the health and
safety of family or household members. . .” included in the definition
of “Essential Services” in Executive Order 04.02.20.01 includes any
and all activities that may preserve the health and welfare of persons
within this State. In addition to the description of actions included
in Executive Order 04.02.20.01, “Essential Services” shall also
include the transport, visitation, regular care of family members and
persons dependent on the services of others, and similar actions that
ensure the welfare and best interests of persons in the State of
Georgia, specifically including the elderly, children, and disabled
populations. The term “Essential Services” shall also include
children obtaining public internet access to fulfill educational
obligations. In engaging in Essential Services, persons should use
care to observe social distancing as much as possible when
interacting with non-cohabitating persons.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of Executive Order 04.02.20.01 limits the ability
of law enforcement officers to enforce the laws of this State.
Particularly, the provisions of Code Section 38-3-4 remain in effect
and all law enforcement is authorized to enforce the Orders issued
pursuant to Title 38, Chapter 3. However, in Executive Order
04.02.20.01, only those officials deputized by the Governor or the
Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency
are “authorized to mandate the closure of any business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation, oF
organization...” found not to be in compliance with Executive Order
04.02.20.01.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of “Essential Services” as needed through communication
media, including social media, without need for further Executive
Orders.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT Is FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall be effective for a period beginning at
6:00 P.M. on Friday, April 3, 2020, and expiring at 11:59 P.M. on

Monday, April 13, 2020.
_ 3:4b-

GOVERNOR

This 3% day of April 2020.
