EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

EXECUTIVE ORDER TO ENSURE THE SAFETY OF EMPLOYEES AND RESIDENTS OF

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

NURSING HOMES AND LONG-TERM CARE FACILITIES

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

The number of COVID-19 cases in Georgia continues to rise; and

The Georgia Department of Public Health has determined that
COVID-19 is spreading throughout nursing homes and other long-
term care facilities, requiring the implementation of certain
restrictions to limit the spread; and

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has determined that
older adults, people of any age who have serious underlying medical
conditions, and certain other groups may be at higher risk for more
serious complications from COVID-19; and

Georgians residing in nursing homes and other long-term care
facilities, including inpatient hospice, assisted living communities,
personal care homes, intermediate care homes, community living
arrangements, and community integration homes are part of the
vulnerable population identified by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention that may be susceptible to more serious
complications from COVID-19; and

To reduce the spread of COVID-19 in Facilities, and to protect the
public health, welfare, and safety, prevent the transmission of
COVID-19, and save lives, it is necessary to authorize actions to

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

monitor, treat, prevent, reduce the spread of, and suppress COVID-
19 in nursing homes and long-term care facilities; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(4.1) vests the Governor with the power to
compel a health care facility to provide services or the use of its
facility if such services or use are reasonable and necessary for
emergency response. The use of such health care facility may include
transferring the management and supervision of the health care
facility to the Department of Public Health for a limited or unlimited
period of time not extending beyond the termination of the public
health emergency; and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vest the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said
individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

In consultation with the Governor’s Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and
visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA
LAW AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the term “Facility” (or collectively, “Facilities”) as used in this
Order shall include:

1. “Intermediate care facilities,” “personal care homes,” and
“skilled nursing facilities” as defined by Code Section 31-
6-2.

2. “Nursing homes” as defined by rule at GA. R. & REG. r. 111-
8-56-.01(a).

“Inpatient hospice” as defined by Code Section 31-7-172
and licensed pursuant to 31-7-173.

“Assisted living communities” and all facilities providing
“Assisted living care” pursuant to Code Section 31-7-12.2.
“Community living arrangements” as classified by the
Department of Community Health pursuant to Code
Section 31-2-4(d)(8).

“Community integration homes” operated by the Georgia
Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental
Disabilities.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That Facilities shall implement the following protocols.

1.

2.

Adhere to the guidelines for non-critical infrastructure
businesses issued in Executive Order 04.02.20.01.
Adhere to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and Georgia
Department of Public Health guidance.

Adopt an infectious disease transfer communication
protocol with local hospitals. The protocol should use the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention transfer tool:
https://www.cde.gov/HAI/toolkits/InterfacilityTransfer
CommunicationForm11-2010.pdf and should be
developed in collaboration with hospital infection
prevention employees.

A positive COVID-19 test result should not be the sole
foundation of a decision to send a resident to a hospital for
treatment. Any transfers should be based on the medical
necessity for hospitalization, including need _ for
respiratory assistance, or other emergent medical
needs. All testing strategies should be made in
consultation with and facilitated by Georgia Department
of Public Health Epidemiology staff.

Prohibit all visitors and non-essential personnel, except
for certain compassionate care situations in accordance
with Executive Order 04.02.20.01.

Provide in-room dining services if feasible.

Cancel all internal and external group activities as
practicable.

Establish appropriate social distancing infrastructure for
residents and employees.

Require all employees to practice frequent hand hygiene,
including washing hands for at least 20 seconds with
antibacterial or antimicrobial soap or using hand sanitizer
with at least 70% isopropyl alcohol after any interaction
with a resident.

ORDERED:

10. Implement active screening of residents for fever and
respiratory symptoms.

11. Screen all employees prior to beginning their shift for fever
and respiratory symptoms.

12. Establish a mechanism for employees who work in
multiple locations to report any exposure to a COVID-19
case in another facility.

13.To the extent feasible, require employees to  self-
quarantine for fourteen (14) days in accordance with
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines
before returning to work after exposure due to
unmitigated close contact with a positive COVID-19 case.
If necessary, to ensure adequate staffing, employees may
continue to work in consultation with the Georgia
Department of Public Health or their workplace
occupational health program so long as they are
asymptomatic and correctly wear personal protective
equipment as required by the Department while on duty.

14. Implement universal and correct use of facemasks for all
employees and require the use of additional personal
protective equipment, such as gowns, gloves, eye
protection, and N95 respirators by employees as needed,
but particularly when interacting with residents with
respiratory symptoms,

15. Use Standard, Contact, and Droplet Precautions with eye
protection when caring for residents with undiagnosed
respiratory infection, unless the suspected diagnosis
requires Airborne Precautions (e.g., tuberculosis).

16. Utilize EPA-registered List N, hospital-grade disinfectants
for frequent cleaning of high-touch surfaces and shared
resident-care equipment.

17. To the extent feasible, cohort residents with symptoms of
respiratory infection, including dedicating healthcare
personnel to work only on affected units.

18. To the extent feasible, designate an area in the facility to
quarantine patients upon admission for evaluation of their
COVID-19 status.

Ir IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Public Health is authorized to issue
directives under this Order, to monitor, treat, prevent, reduce the
spread of, and suppress COVID-19 in Facilities throughout Georgia.
These directives shall be coordinated among the Georgia
Department of Public Health, Georgia National Guard, and the
Georgia Department of Community Health.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That compliance with Georgia Department of Public Health and
Georgia National Guard directives and guidance shall be mandatory
for all Facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51(d)(4.1), in the event of
noncompliance by a Facility with this Order or a directive issued
subject to this Order, the Georgia Department of Public Health may,
after taking reasonable steps to provide notice and an opportunity to
comply, assume management and supervision of the Facility.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. However, in the event of any conflict between this Order and
the provisions of any quarantine or isolation Order issued to a
specific person by the Department of Public Health, such quarantine
or isolation order shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard and the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety shall provide
available resources as requested to assist the Department of Public
Health in the enforcement of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That regardless of any action or inaction taken by the Department of
Public Health, any person found in violation of this Order shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

Ir IS FURTHER
ORDERED: All provisions of the Order shall become effective for a period of

twenty (20) days, beginning at 12:00 A.M. on Friday, April 10, 2020,
and expiring at 11:59 P.M. on Thursday, April 30, 2020.

&
This 8 day of April 2020, at 2 ‘ Y/ amie

gf)

OVERNOR
