THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

TEMPORARILY ALLOWING REMOTE NOTARIZATION AND ATTESTATION

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 15, 2020; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020, by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

Certain legal documents require the in-person services of a notary
public or a witness and such interactions should be avoided to the
maximum extent possible in order to promote social distancing and
the mitigation of the spread of COVID-19; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of
any state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule,
or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay
necessary action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Upon consideration, I have determined that the following
temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents and provide a
safe and secure method by which to execute important legal
documents.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE
AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That any purported requirement under the laws of this state that a
notarial act performed pursuant to Chapter 17 of Title 45 of the
Official Code of Georgia must occur in the physical presence of the
notary public is hereby suspended, and any such act may be
performed remotely if the all following requirements are met:

1. The notary public uses_ real-time audio-video
communication technology or any similar real-time means
of electronic video conferencing that allows the parties to
communicate with each other simultaneously by sight and
sound in order to notarize signatures.

2. The notary public is an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Georgia or is operating under the supervision
of an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of
Georgia. As used here, the term “supervision” shall mean
that the notary public is an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or other representative of an attorney or
an attorney observes the execution of documents either in-
person or via the real-time audio-video communication
technology.

3. The signer requiring the notarial act from the notary
public presents satisfactory evidence of identity as
required in Code Section 45-17-8, while connected to the
real-time audio-video communication technology.

4. The notary public is physically located in the state of
Georgia,

5. The signer transmits a copy of the signed document to the
notary public on the same date it was executed for
execution by the notary.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement under Georgia law, including, but not limited
to, Code Sections 10-6B-5, 15-9-86, 19-3-62, 19-8-4, 19-8-5, 19-8-6,
19-8-7, 29-2-11, 29-4-3, 29-5-3, 31-32-5, 44-5-128, 44-5-143, 44-5-
144, 44-5-145, or 53-4-20,including a power of attorney, verified
petition filed in probate court, antenuptial agreement, surrender of
rights for adoption, return filed in probate court, standby guardian
designation, nomination of guardian, nomination of conservator,
advance directive for health care, designation of successor custodian,
will, codicil, or other document be signed, subscribed, executed,
witnessed, attested, acknowledged, or affirmed in the physical
presence of another individual or other individuals may be satisfied

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

by the use of audio-video communication technology or any similar
real-time means of electronic video conferencing that allows all of the
parties to communicate with each other simultaneously by sight and
sound.

IT IS FURTHER

That the official date and time of the notarization or witnessing
performed via the use of audio-video communication technology or
any similar real-time means of electronic video conferencing
pursuant to this Order shall be the date and time when the notary
and/or witness(es) witness the signature via the videoconference
technology.

IT IS FURTHER

That all documents notarized or witnessed via the use of audio-video
communication technology or any similar real-time means of
electronic video conferencing pursuant to this Order shall be signed,
certified, and executed, as appropriate, by the notary and/or
witness(es) on the same calendar day that the signer signs the
document.

IT 1S FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency
declared in Executive Order 03.14.20.01 and renewed by Executive
Order 04.08.20.02. If the Public Health State of Emergency declared
in Executive Order 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this Order shall carry
forward with the Public Health State of Emergency until such state
of emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

This 9th day of April 2020, at Md "e $) AM. &

ad

OVERNOR
