EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

EXECUTIVE ORDER TO ENSURE A SAFE & HEALTHY GEORGIA

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

The number of COVID-19 cases in Georgia continues to rise; and

The Georgia Department of Public Health has determined that
COVID-19 is spreading throughout communities, requiring the
implementation of certain restrictions to limit the spread; and

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has determined that
older adults, people of any age who have serious underlying medical
conditions, and certain other people groups may be at higher risk for
more serious complications from COVID-19; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vests the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

In consultation with the Governor’s Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following temporary actions are necessary and appropriate to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and
visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA
LAW AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

All residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice social
distancing and sanitation in accordance with this Order and
guidelines published by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

IT IS FURTHER

No business, establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation,
organization, or county or municipal government shall allow more
than ten (10) persons to be gathered at a single location if such
gathering requires persons to stand or to be seated within six (6) feet
of any other person. This provision shall not apply to cohabitating
persons outside of their homes, family units or roommates residing
together in private homes, or entities defined as “Critical
Infrastructure” by this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That as used in this Order, the term “single location” shall be
interpreted to mean a space where all persons gathered cannot
maintain at least six (6) feet of distance between themselves and any
other person. The term “single location” shall not include private
residences.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are required to
shelter in place within their homes or places of residence, meaning
remaining in their place of residence and taking every possible
precaution to limit social interaction to prevent the spread or
infection of COVID-19 to themselves or any other person, unless they
are:

1. Conducting or participating in Essential Services;

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

2. Performing Necessary Travel;
3. Are engaged in the performance of, or travel to and from, the

performance of Minimum Basic Operations for a business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation, or
organization not classified as Critical Infrastructure; or

Are part of the workforce for Critical Infrastructure and are
actively engaged in the performance of, or travel to and from,
their respective employment.

IT 1S FORTHER

That Essential Services permitted pursuant to the provisions of this
Order are limited to the following:

1.

Obtaining necessary supplies and services for family or
household members, such as food and supplies for household
consumption and use, medical supplies or medication,
supplies and equipment needed to work from home, and
products needed to maintain safety, sanitation, and essential
maintenance of the home or residence. Preference should be
given to online ordering, home delivery, and curbside pick-up
services wherever possible as opposed to in-store shopping.
Engaging in activities essential for the health and safety of
family or household members, such as seeking medical,
behavioral health, or emergency services.

. Engaging in outdoor exercise activities so long as a minimum

distance of six (6) feet is maintained during such activities
between all persons who are not occupants of the same
household or residence.

IT IS FURTHER

That Necessary Travel permitted under this Order is limited to such
travel as is required to conduct or participate in Essential Services,
Minimum Basic Operations, or Critical Infrastructure as defined by
this Order.

Ir IS FURTHER

That Minimum Basic Operations are limited to:

1,

The minimum necessary activities to maintain the value of a
business, establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation,
or organization, provide services, manage inventory, ensure
security, process payroll and employee benefits, or for related
functions. Such minimum necessary activities include
remaining open to the public subject to the restrictions of this
Order.

ORDERED:

2.

The minimum necessary activities to facilitate employees or
volunteers being able to work remotely from their residences
or members or patrons being able to participate remotely
from their residences.

Instances where employees are working outdoors without
regular contact with other persons, such as delivery services,
contractors, landscape businesses, and agricultural industry
services.

IT IS FURTHER

That

all businesses, establishments, corporations, non-profit

corporations, or organizations that are not Critical Infrastructure
shall only engage in Minimum Basic Operations as defined in this
Order during the effective dates of this Order. Such entities shall also
implement measures which mitigate the exposure and spread of
COVID-19 among its workforce. Such measures shall include the
following:

1.

8
9.
10

11.
12.

13.

14.

15.

Screening and evaluating workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or
shortness of breath;

Requiring workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to
work or to seek medical attention;

Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;
Requiring hand washing or sanitation by workers at
appropriate places within the business location;

Providing personal protective equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the worker within
the business location;

Prohibiting gatherings of workers during working hours;
Permitting workers to take breaks and meals outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper social distancing is attainable;

. Implementing teleworking for all possible workers;

Implementing staggered shifts for all possible workers;

. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, wherever

possible;

Delivering intangible services remotely wherever possible;
Discouraging workers from using other workers’ phones,
desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;
Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen;

Suspending the use of Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,

ORDERED:

and any other credit card receipt signature requirements to
the extent such suspension is permitted by agreements with
credit card companies and credit agencies;

16. Enforcing social distancing of non-cohabitating persons while
present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

17. For retailers and service providers, providing for alternative
points of sale outside of buildings, including curbside pick-up
or delivery of products and/or services if an alternative point
of sale is permitted under Georgia law;

18. Increasing physical space between workers and customers;

19. Providing disinfectant and sanitation products for workers to
clean their workspace, equipment, and tools;

20.Increasing physical space between workers’ worksites to at
least six (6) feet.

IT IS FURTHER

The term “Critical Infrastructure” shall refer to businesses,
establishments, corporations, non-profit corporations, and
organizations as defined by the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security as “essential critical infrastructure workforce,” in guidance
dated March 19, 2020, and revised on March 28, 2020, and those
suppliers which provide essential goods and services to the critical
infrastructure workforce as well as entities that provide legal
services, home hospice, and non-profit corporations or non-profit
organizations that offer food distribution or other health or mental
health services. The operation of Critical Infrastructure shall not be
impeded by county, municipal, or local ordinance.

Critical Infrastructure that continues in-person operation during the
effective dates of this Order shall implement measures which
mitigate the exposure and spread of COVID-19 among its workforce.
Such measures may include, but shall not be limited to:

1. Screening and evaluating workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or
shortness of breath;

2, Requiring workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to
work or to seek medical attention;

3. Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;

4. Requiring hand washing or sanitation by workers at
appropriate places within the business location;

5. Providing personal protective equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the worker within
the business location;

6. Prohibiting gatherings of workers during working hours;

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

7, Permitting workers to take breaks and lunch outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper social distancing is attainable;

8. Implementing teleworking for all possible workers;

9. Implementing staggered shifts for all possible workers;

10. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, wherever
possible;

11. Delivering intangible services remotely wherever possible;

12. Discouraging workers from using other workers’ phones,
desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;

13. Providing disinfectant and sanitation products for workers to
clean their workspace, equipment, and tools;

14. Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace; and

15. Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen; and

16. Suspending the use of Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,
and any other credit card receipt signature requirements to
the extent such suspension is permitted by agreements with
credit card companies and credit agencies.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Economic Development is
authorized to issue guidance to any business, corporation,
organization, or industry trade group regarding its status as Critical
Infrastructure. This guidance shall not require a finding of fact but
shall be in writing and shall be considered a final agency action for
the purpose of proceedings under Code Section 50-13-19.

Ir IS FURTHER

All restaurants and private social clubs shall cease providing dine-in
services. Takeout, curbside pick-up, and delivery are permitted in
accordance with the provisions of this Order.

This provision shall not limit the operation of dine-in services in
hospitals, healthcare facilities, nursing homes, or other long-term
care facilities; however, to the extent possible, such facilities should
offer in-room dining.

IT IS FURTHER

That all gyms, fitness centers, bowling alleys, theaters, live
performance venues, operators of amusement rides as defined by

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Code Section 25-15-51, body art studios permitted pursuant to Code
Section 31-40-2, businesses registered pursuant to Code Sections 43-
10-11 and 43-10-18, estheticians as defined by Code Section 43-10-
1(8), hair designers as defined by Code Section 43-10-1(9), persons
licensed to practice massage therapy pursuant to Code Section 43-
24A-8, and businesses which possess a license to operate as or
otherwise meet the definition of “bar” as defined by Code Section 3-
1-2(2.1), shall cease in-person operations and shall close to the public
while this Order is in effect.

IT IS FURTHER

That persons required to shelter in place under any provision of this
Order shall not receive visitors, except as follows:

1. Visitors providing medical, behavioral health, or emergency
services or medical supplies or medication, including home
hospice;

2. Visitors providing support for the person to conduct activities
of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living;

3. Visitors providing necessary supplies and services, such as
food and supplies for household consumption and_ use,
supplies and equipment needed to work from home, and
products needed to maintain safety, sanitation, and essential
maintenance of the home or residence; or

4. Visitors received during end-of-life circumstances,

To the extent practicable under the circumstances, visitors shall
maintain a minimum distance of six (6) feet between themselves and
all other occupants of the person’s home or residence. Any visitors
visiting for the sole purpose of delivering medication, supplies, or
other tangible goods shall, to the extent practicable, deliver such
items in a manner that does not require in-person contact or require
the deliverer to enter the person’s home or residence.

IT IS FURTHER

That the provisions of this Order related to visitors listed in the
immediately preceding paragraph shall be strictly enforced against
nursing homes or other long-term care facilities, including inpatient
hospice, assisted living communities, personal care homes,
intermediate care homes, community living arrangements, and
community integration homes.

IT IS FURTHER

That an exception to any shelter-in-place requirement set forth
hereunder applies in the event of an emergency. In such cases,

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

persons are encouraged to leave their homes or residences and
shelter in place in accordance with the rules included in this Order at
a safe alternate location. Persons experiencing homelessness are
urged to obtain shelter and to contact governmental and other
entities for assistance.

It IS FURTHER

That the Department of Public Health, the Department of Public
Safety, or any other state department or state officer deputized by the
Governor or the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency are, after providing reasonable notice, authorized to
mandate the closure of any business, establishment, corporation,
non-profit corporation, or organization not in compliance with this
Order for a period not to extend beyond the term of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard and the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety shall provide
resources as requested to assist in the enforcement of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51, the powers of counties and
cities conveyed in Titles 36 and 38, including those specific powers
enumerated in Code Sections 36-5-22.1 and 36-35-3 are hereby
suspended to the extent of suspending enforcement of any local
ordinance or order adopted or issued since March 1, 2020, with the
stated purpose or effect of responding to a public health state of
emergency, ordering residents to shelter-in-place, ordering a
quarantine, or combatting the spread of coronavirus or COVID-19
that in any way conflicts, varies, or differs from the terms of this
Order. Enforcement of all such ordinances and orders is hereby
suspended and no county or municipality shall adopt any similar
ordinance or order while this Order is in effect, except for such
ordinances or orders as are designed to enforce compliance with this
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any
quarantine or isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Department of Public Health shall control.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, any person who violates this
Order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Officials enforcing this
Order should take reasonable steps to provide notice prior to issuing
a citation or making an arrest.

IT IS FURTHER
This Order rescinds and replaces Executive Order 03.23.20.01.
IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective for a period
beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday, April 3, 2020, and expiring at 11:59
P.M. on Monday, April 13, 2020.

This 24 day of April 2020, at 3) @ po.

6th

GOVERNOR
