EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR STORM DAMAGE

A severe storm system moved across the State of Georgia beginning
April 12, 2020 and continuing through the morning hours of April
13, 2020, producing tornadoes, straight line winds, and excessive
rainfall; and

Due to extensive damage, Georgia’s network of roads and bridges
may be impassable, isolating residences and persons from access to
essential public services; and

Assistance from the State is necessary to provide for the public’s
safety, protect private property, and restore the social and economic
welfare of the affected counties; and

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 15, 2020; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

This Order shall create a coexisting state of emergency in the State of
Georgia with the Public Health State of Emergency described in the
immediately preceding paragraphs; and

The responses by the State to this State of Emergency for Storm
Damage and the Public Health State of Emergency should both
proceed simultaneously, without one impeding the other; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Executive Orders 03.14.20.01 and 04.08.20.02 waived compliance
with certain rules and regulations for motor carriers and commercial
vehicles for the purpose of responding to the Public Health State of
Emergency; and

This Order waives compliance with the same rules and regulations
for motor carriers and commercial vehicles as those waived by
Executive Orders 03.14.20.01 and 04.08.20.02, but for the purpose
of responding to the State of Emergency for Storm Damage declared
here; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the authority to bring
emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and
regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in the State of Georgia due to the
damage that was created by the severe storm system and tornadoes
that moved through the State on April 12 and 13, 2020.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State of Emergency declared by this Order shall coexist with
the Public Health State of Emergency declared by Executive Order
03.14.20.01 and renewed by Executive Order 04.08.20.02. The
existence or termination of one shall not impinge the other.

IT 1S FURTHER

That any orders derivative of or appurtenant to this Order addressing
this State of Emergency for Storm Damage shall not infringe,
overturn, or in any way amend any orders that have been issued for
the purpose of responding to the Public Health State of Emergency
declared by Executive Order 03.14.20.01 and renewed by Executive
Order 04.08.20.02.

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the
uninterrupted supply of petroleum products; emergency or disaster-
related materials; supplies; goods and services, including removal of
debris; movement of agricultural products; or other food products.
This declared emergency justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver’s

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

hours of service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
suspension will remain in effect for ten (10) days or until the
emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is less. Nothing
herein will be construed as an exemption from the Commercial
Driver’s License requirements in 49 C.F.R. 383 and the financial
requirements in 49 C.F.R. 387.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this State of
Emergency for Storm Damage will require or allow an ill or fatigued
driver to operate a motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor
vehicle carrier that he or she needs immediate rest will be given at
least ten (10) consecutive hours off-duty before being required to
return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any such vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing disaster
relief related to this State of Emergency for Storm Damage, which
traverses roadways maintained by the State of Georgia shall not
exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum width
of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred (100)
feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (80) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER
That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,

height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency for Storm Damage shall be issued permits by the Georgia

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Department of Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any
special conditions the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list
on applicable permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be
construed to allow any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for
bridges and like structures, nor shall anything in this Executive
Order be construed to relieve compliance with restrictions other than
those specified in this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other
legal requirement not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order does not suspend operation of any state or federal
law or regulation, except as specifically described herein, nor do the
waiver of rules and regulations in this Order affect or amend similar
rule and regulation waivers for motor carriers or commercial vehicles
issued in Executive Orders 03.14.20.01 and 04.08.20.02.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
affected areas, and the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency
Operations Plan.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall be valid for a period of ten (10) days, expiring Thursday, April
23, 2020 unless the State of Emergency declared in this Order is
renewed by the Governor.

This 13 day of April 2020 at : a4 A.M.

rade

GOVERNOR
