. & ~ TFPE a

THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

PROVIDING FLEXIBILITY FOR HEALTHCARE PRACTICES, MOVING CERTAIN
BUSINESSES TO MINIMUM OPERATIONS, & PROVIDING FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Section 38-3-51(i) vests the Governor with the power to direct
the Department of Public Health to collaborate with private
organizations; and,

Pursuant to OCGA 38-3-51(j), any individual, partnership,
association, or corporation who acts in accordance with an order,
rule, or regulation entered by the Governor pursuant to the authority
granted by OCGA 38-3-51 will not be held liable to any other
individual, partnership, association, or corporation by reason thereof
in any action seeking legal or equitable relief.

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

In consultation with the Governor’s Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, | have determined that
the following actions are necessary and appropriate to protect the
strength of Georgia’s economy and provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That all medical practices, dental practices, orthodontics practices,
optometry practices, physical therapists, ambulatory surgical
centers, physicians performing elective surgeries, healthcare
institutions, medical facilities, and any and all other healthcare-
related practices and services that have elected to cease operations
because of the spread of COVID-19 should begin treating patients as
soon as practicable in accordance with the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention guidelines, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services guidelines, and the provisions of this Order to
prevent the spread of COVID-19. All such healthcare-related
practices and services shall not be subject to Minimum Basic
Operations restrictions but should consider implementing the
operational guidelines provided in Executive Order 04.02.20.01 for
Critical Infrastructure.

IT IS FURTHER

That all gyms, fitness centers, bowling alleys, body art studios
permitted pursuant to Code Section 31-40-2, businesses registered
pursuant to Code Sections 43-10-11 and 43-10-18, estheticians as
defined by Code Section 43-10-1(8), hair designers as defined by
Code Section 43-10-1(9), and persons licensed to practice massage
therapy pursuant to Code Section 43-24A-8, may begin in-person
Minimum Basic Operations on Friday, April 24, 2020. All such
businesses shall implement measures which mitigate the exposure
and spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1. Screening and evaluating workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or
shortness of breath;

2. Requiring workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to
work or to seek medical attention;

3. Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;

4. Requiring hand washing or sanitation by workers at
appropriate places within the business location;

5. Providing personal protective equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the worker within
the business location;

6. Prohibiting gatherings of workers during working hours;

7. Permitting workers to take breaks and meals outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper social distancing is attainable;

Implementing teleworking for all possible workers;
Implementing staggered shifts for all possible workers;

. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, wherever
possible;

11. Delivering intangible services remotely wherever possible;

12. Discouraging workers from using other workers’ phones,
desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;

13. Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

14. Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen;

15. Suspending the use of Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,
and any other credit card receipt signature requirements to
the extent such suspension is permitted by agreements with
credit card companies and credit agencies;

16. Enforcing social distancing of non-cohabitating persons while
present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

17. For retailers and service providers, providing for alternative
points of sale outside of buildings, including curbside pickup
or delivery of products and/or services if an alternative point
of sale is permitted under Georgia law;

18. Increasing physical space between workers and customers;

19. Providing disinfectant and sanitation products for workers to
clean their workspace, equipment, and tools;

20. Increasing physical space between workers’ worksites to at
least six (6) feet.

faced,
5° &

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That consistent with previous Executive Orders, Minimum Basic
Operations are limited to:

1. The minimum necessary activities to maintain the value of a
business, establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation,
or organization, provide services, manage inventory, ensure
security, process payroll and employee benefits, or for related
functions. Such minimum necessary activities include

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

remaining open to the public subject to the restrictions of this
Order.

2. The minimum necessary activities to facilitate employees or
volunteers being able to work remotely from their residences
or members or patrons being able to participate remotely
from their residences.

3. Instances where employees are working outdoors without
regular contact with other persons, such as delivery services,
contractors, landscape businesses, and agricultural industry
services.

IT IS FURTHER

That consistent with previous Executive Orders, no business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation, organization, or
county or municipal government shall allow more than ten (10)
person to be gathered at a single location if such gathering requires
persons to stand or be seated within six (6) feet of any other person.
This provision shall not apply to cohabitating person outside of their
homes, family units or roommates residing together in private
homes, or entities defined as “Critical Infrastructure” by Executive
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That as used in this Order, the term “single location” shall be
interpreted to mean a space where all persons gathered cannot
maintain at least six (6) feet of distance between themselves and any
other person. The term “single location” shall not include private
residences.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to those entities and workers defined as “Critical
Infrastructure” in Executive Order 04.02.20.01, all workers,
businesses, establishments, corporations, non-profit corporations,
and organizations included in version 3.0 of Guidance on Essential
Critical Infrastructure Workers released by the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security on April 17, 2020, shall also be defined as
“Critical Infrastructure” in this State. The operation of Critical
Infrastructure shall not be impeded by county, municipal, or local
ordinance.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Department of Public Health shall enter into an agreement
with Augusta University Health System, Inc., to provide COVID-19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

screening and testing services for residents and visitors of the State
of Georgia.

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of this Order, the term “AU Health” shall refer
to Augusta University Health System, Inc. and its affiliated entities,
including without limitation, Augusta University Medical Center,
Inc., Augusta University Medical Associates, Inc., and any and all
subsidiaries. The term “AU Health” shall also include the directors,
officers, employees, staff, contractors, and facilities for all the entities
listed above.

It IS FURTHER

That subject to any agreement with the Department of Public Health,
AU Health shall become agents of the State for the purposes of Code
Sections 38-3-35 and 38-3-51().

IT IS FURTHER

That services provided or performed for the Department of Public
Health by AU Health shall be considered acts in accordance with an
Order entered by the Governor pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51(j).

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Sections 31-2A-4(9) and 38-3-51(d)(1),
because this public health emergency due to the spread of the novel
coronavirus, COVID-19, is a “grave emergenc[y] of more than local
peril,” the Department of Public Health is authorized “to employ
whatever means may be at its disposal to overcome [this]
emergenc[y],” including, but not limited to, overriding the orders of
county boards of health, health districts, and their officers, directors,
and employees to enforce uniformity in the State’s response to the
spread of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State Health Officer shall have the authority to select which
specific COVID-19 screening and testing services operate on behalf
of the State, health districts, and county boards of health. The
selection of screening and testing services shall be based on a
balancing of sound medical principles and the public health and
safety interests of the State.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the State Health Officer shall have the authority to enforce
uniform testing requirements in this State, and failure to comply
with orders by the State Health Officer shall be a misdemeanor
pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, enforceable by law enforcement
officers.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard, acting at
the direction of the State Health Officer, shall have the authority to
enforce uniform testing requirements in this State, and failure to
comply with orders by the Adjutant General shall be a misdemeanor
pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, enforceable by law enforcement
officers.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Executive Order 04.02.20.01 and Code Section 38-
3-51, enforcement of any county or municipal ordinance or order that
is more or less restrictive than this Order is hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That cardiac technicians, emergency medical technicians,
paramedics, and paramedic clinical preceptors as defined by Code
Section 31-11-2 shall be considered auxiliary emergency
management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That officers, directors, employees, staff, and contractors of air
ambulance services, ambulance providers, emergency medical
services systems, EMSC programs, and local coordinating entities as
defined by Code Section 31-11-2 shall be considered auxiliary
emergency management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That during the Public Health State of Emergency, services provided
or performed by air ambulance services, ambulance providers,
emergency medical services systems, EMSC programs, and local
coordinating entities as defined by Code Section 31-11-2 shall be
considered emergency management activities pursuant to Code
Section 38-3-35.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of any previously issued Executive Order that is
in direct conflict with any provision of this Order is hereby rescinded.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency
declared in Executive Order 03.14.20.01 and renewed by Executive
Order 04.08.20.02. If the Public Health State of Emergency is
renewed, this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health State
of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or ceases
to be renewed by the Governor.

8
This 20t day of April 2020 at $ ‘ “/ P.M.

BAL

GOVERNOR
