EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS

REVIVING A HEALTHY GEORGIA

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No, 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vests the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said
individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

Executive Order No. 03.20.20.02 as issued applies to Georgia
Business Corporations (governed by Code Title 14, Chapter 2), and it
is in the best interests of the State to extend such order to also apply
to Georgia Nonprofit Corporations (governed by Code Title 14,
Chapter 3); and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Corporations that are calling and holding meetings of shareholders
pursuant to Code Sections 14-2-701 or 14-2-702 are required to
deliver advance notice and meet other legal requirements under the
laws of the State of Georgia, as well as the federal securities laws of
the United States, in advance of convening such meetings; and

In consultation with the Governor’s Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following actions are necessary and appropriate to protect the
strength of Georgia’s economy and provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA

LAW, CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME
AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

That unless otherwise noted, the provisions contained in this Order
shall be effective from May 1, 2020 at 12:00 A.M. until May 13, 2020
at 11:59 P.M.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice
Social Distancing as defined herein and refrain from Gathering as
defined herein.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are strongly
encouraged to wear face coverings as practicable while outside their
homes or place of residence, except when eating, drinking, or
exercising outdoors.

IT IS FURTHER

All residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice
sanitation in accordance with the guidelines published by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

IT IS FURTHER

That no business, establishment, corporation, non-profit
corporation, organization, or county or municipal government shall

Page 2 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

allow Gatherings of persons. This provision shall not apply to
cohabitating persons, family units, or roommates residing together
in private homes, whether inside or outside of their homes or place
of residence. This provision shall also not apply to entities defined as
“Critical Infrastructure.”

IT IS FURTHER

That Executive Order 04.08.20.04 shall be extended for thirteen
days, until Wednesday, May 13, 2020, at 11:59 P.M.

I], DEFINITIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That the following definitions shall apply to this Order:

1. “Critical Infrastructure” shall include all workers, businesses,
establishments, corporations, non-profit corporations, and
organizations included in versions 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0 of
Guidance on Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers
released by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security on
March 19, 2020, March 28, 2020, and April 17, 2020,
respectively. The term “Critical Infrastructure” shall also
include those suppliers which provide essential goods and
services to the Critical Infrastructure workforce as well as
entities that provide legal services, home hospice, and non-
profit corporations or non-profit organizations that offer food
distribution or other health or mental health services.

2. “Essential Services” shall include those activities outlined
below.

A. Obtaining necessary supplies and services for family or
household members, such as food and supplies for
household consumption and use, medical supplies or
medication, supplies and equipment needed to work
from home, and products needed to maintain safety,
sanitation, and essential maintenance of the home or
residence. Preference should be given to online
ordering, home delivery, and curbside pick-up services
wherever possible as opposed to in-store shopping.

B. Engaging in activities essential for the health and safety
of family or household members,

C. Seeking medical, behavioral health, or emergency
services,

D. Activities that may preserve the health and welfare of
persons within this State.

Page 3 of 26

E. The transport, visitation, and regular care of family
members and persons dependent on the services of
others, and similar actions that ensure the welfare and
best interests of persons in the State of Georgia,
specifically including the elderly, children, and
disabled populations.

F, Children obtaining public internet access to fulfill
educational obligations.

G. Engaging in outdoor exercise activities so long as Social
Distancing is practiced during such activities between
all persons who are not occupants of the same
household or residence.

3. “Gathering” shall mean more than ten (10) persons physically
present at a Single Location if, to be present, persons are
required to stand or be seated within six (6) feet of any other
person, Therefore, groups of more than ten (10) people are
permitted if their grouping is transitory or incidental, or if
their grouping is the result of being spread across more than
one Single Location.

4. “Necessary Travel” shall mean such travel as is required to
conduct or participate in Essential Services or Critical
Infrastructure as defined by this Order.

5. “Personal Protective Equipment” shall mean surgical masks,
No5 masks, respirators, other facemasks, protective gloves,
protective clothing, protective garments, and shoe coverings.

6. “Shelter in Place” shall mean a person is required to remain in
their home or place of residence and take every possible
precaution to limit social interaction to prevent the spread or
infection of COVID-19 to themselves or any other person,
subject to the provisions and exceptions of this Order.

7. “Single Location” shall mean a space where all persons
gathered cannot maintain at least six (6) feet of distance
between themselves and any other person.

8. “Social Distancing” means keeping space between yourself
and other people outside of your home or place of residence.
Persons practicing Social Distancing should stay at least six
(6) feet from other people, avoid assembling in groups, avoid
crowded places, and avoid large crowds.

Lil. SHELTERING IN PLACE
IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia who meet the
following criteria for higher risk of severe illness as defined by the

Page 4 of 26

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are required to Shelter
in Place within their homes or places of residence:

1. Those persons who are 65 years of age or older.

2. Those persons who live in a nursing home or long-term care

facility, including inpatient hospice, assisted living

communities, personal care homes, intermediate care homes,

community living arrangements, and community integration

homes.

Those persons who have chronic lung disease.

Those persons who have moderate to severe asthma.

Those persons who have severe heart disease.

Those persons who are immunocompromised. Many

conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised,

including cancer treatment, smoking, bone marrow or organ

transplantation, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV

or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other

immune weakening medication.

7. Those persons, of any age, with class III or severe obesity.

8. Those persons diagnosed with the following underlying
medical conditions: diabetes, liver disease, and persons with
chronic kidney disease undergoing dialysis.

ANA!

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That persons required to Shelter in Place shall be permitted to
engage in the following activities:

i. Conducting or participating in Essential Services;

2. Performing Necessary Travel;

3. Engaging in the performance of, or travel to and from the
performance of minimum necessary activities to maintain the
value of a business, establishment, corporation, non-profit
corporation, or organization not classified as Critical
Infrastructure; or

4. Working in or for Critical Infrastructure and are actively
engaging in the performance of, or travel to and from, their
respective employment.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That persons required to Shelter in Place shall not receive visitors,
except as follows:

1. Visitors providing medical, behavioral health, or emergency
services or medical supplies or medication, including home
hospice;

2. Visitors providing support for the person to conduct activities
of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living;

Page 5 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

3. Visitors providing necessary supplies and services, such as
food and supplies for household consumption and _ use,
supplies and equipment needed to work from home, and
products needed to maintain safety, sanitation, and essential
maintenance of the home or residence; or

4. Visitors received during end-of-life circumstances,

To the extent practicable under the circumstances, visitors shall
maintain a minimum distance of six (6) feet between themselves and
all other occupants of the person’s home or residence. Any visitors
visiting for the sole purpose of delivering medication, supplies, or
other tangible goods shall, to the extent practicable, deliver such
items in a manner that does not require in-person contact or require
the deliverer to enter the person’s home or residence.

IT IS FURTHER

That the provisions of this Order related to visitors listed in the
immediately preceding paragraph shall be strictly enforced against
nursing homes or other long-term care facilities, including inpatient
hospice, assisted living communities, personal care homes,
intermediate care homes, community living arrangements, and
community integration homes.

IT IS FURTHER

That an exception to any Shelter in Place requirement set forth
hereunder applies in the event of an emergency. In such cases,
persons are encouraged to leave their homes or residences and
Shelter in Place in accordance with the rules included in this Order
at a safe alternate location, Persons experiencing homelessness are
urged to obtain shelter and contact governmental and other entities
for assistance.

IV. RESTAURANTS & DINING SERVICES

IT IS FURTHER

That the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled “Restaurants &
Dining Services,” shall become effective at 12:00 A.M. on Monday,
April 27, 2020, and shall be subject to enforcement as provided
herein and in Section X of this Order, titled “Enforcement.”

Page 6 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of Section IV of this Order, titled “Restaurants
& Dining Services,” the term “Single Location” as used in the
definition of “Gatherings” in Section I of this Order shall mean 500
square feet of public space. This formula shall only apply to patrons.
Therefore, for restaurants, no more than ten (10) patrons should be
allowed in the facility per 500 square feet of public space. In
calculating the total number of public space square feet, such
calculation shall include waiting and bar areas, if any, but shall not
include hallways, restrooms, and spaces closed to patrons.

IT IS FURTHER

That restaurants and dining rooms, including those at private social
clubs, are hereby permitted to resume providing dine-in services. All
restaurants and dining rooms that operate during the effective dates
of this Order shall implement measures which mitigate the
exposure and spread of COVID-19 among its patrons and workforce.
Such measures shall include the following:

1, Screen and evaluate workers who exhibit signs of illness, such
as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or shortness
of breath;

2. Require workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to
work or to seek medical attention. Per existing U.S, Food and
Drug Administration Food Code requirements, employees
who are sick should remain home. If an employee becomes ill
or presents signs of illness at work, the operator should
identify the employee’s condition during a pre-work screening
and send the employee home. Restaurants shall create,
maintain, and follow established policies regarding when
employees who have become ill are permitted to return to
work. An employee with known or suspected COVID-19 must
follow Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines
to self-isolate for at least seven (7) days after symptom onset
and end isolation only after symptoms have improved and the
employee has been fever-free and/or symptom-free for three
(3) consecutive days without medication before returning to
work;

Implement teleworking for all possible workers;

Implement staggered shifts for all possible workers;

Hold all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

Train all employees on the importance and expectation of
increased frequency of handwashing, the use of hand
sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol, and provide clear
instruction to avoid touching hands to face;

Nn GTBY

Page 7 of 26

7. Require all employees to wear face coverings at all times, Such
coverings shall be cleaned or replaced daily;

8. Discourage workers from using other workers’ phones, desks,
offices, or other work tools and equipment;

9g. Where possible, stagger workstations to avoid employees
standing adjacent to one another or next to each other. Where
six (6) feet of separation is not possible, consider spacing
options that include other mitigation efforts with increased
frequency of cleaning and sanitizing surfaces;

10. Establish limit numbers to reduce contact in employee
breakrooms;

11. Prohibit handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

12. Enforce Social Distancing of non-cohabitating persons while
present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

13. Increase physical space between workers and patrons;

14. Limit contact between wait staff and patrons;

15. Discard ail food items that are out of date;

16. Discontinue use of salad bars and buffets;

17. If providing a “grab and go” service, stock coolers to no more
than minimum levels;

18. Ensure the Food Safety Manager certification of the person in
charge is up-to-date and provide food handler training to
refresh employees;

19. Thoroughly detail, clean, and sanitize the entire facility prior
to resuming dine-in services and continue to do so regularly,
focussing such cleaning and sanitation on high contact areas
that would be touched by employees and patrons;

20.Between diners, clean and sanitize table condiments, digital
ordering devices, check presenters, self-service areas,
tabletops and commonly touched areas, and discarding
single-use items;

21. Use rolled silverware and eliminate table presets;

22,Remove items from self-service drink, condiment, utensil,
and tableware stations and have workers provide such items
to patrons directly wherever practicable;

23.The use of disposable paper menus is strongly encouraged,
which should be discarded after each patron use. Otherwise,
businesses subject to this Section shall clean and sanitize
reusable menus between each use by a patron. Non-touch
menus are also acceptable for use.

24.Clean and sanitize restrooms regularly, check restrooms
based on the frequency of use, and ensure adequate supply of
soap and paper towels at all times;

25.Implement procedures to increase cleaning and sanitizing
frequency of surfaces in the back-of-house. Avoid all food
contact surfaces when using disinfectants;

Page 8 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

26.Check restrooms regularly and clean and sanitize based on
frequency of use;

27. Update floor plans for common dining areas, redesigning
seating arrangements to ensure at least six (6) feet of
separation from seating to seating. Utilize physical barriers
on booth seating when available;

28. Limit party size at tables to no more than six;

29. Where practical, consider a reservations-only business model
or call-ahead seating;

30.Remind third-party delivery drivers and any suppliers of your
internal distancing requirements;

31. Post signage on entrances that no one with a fever or
symptoms of COVID-19 is permitted in the facility;

32. Where practicable, physical barriers such as partitions or
Plexiglas at registers should be used;

33. Use technological solutions where possible to reduce person-
to-person interaction: mobile ordering, mobile access to
menus to plan in advance, text on arrival for seating, and
contactless payment options;

34.Provide hand sanitizer for use by patrons, including
contactless hand sanitizing stations when available;

35. Do not allow patrons to congregate in waiting areas or bar
areas. Design a process to ensure patron separation while
waiting to be seated that can include floor markings, outdoor
distancing, or waiting in cars;

36.If possible, use an exit from the facility separate from the
entrance;

37, Mark ingress/egress to and from restrooms to establish paths
that mitigate proximity for patrons and staff;

38.Where practicable, take-out and curbside pick-up services
should be prioritized over dine-in services; and

39. All restaurant or dining room playgrounds shall be closed.

IT IS FURTHER

That none of the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Dining Services,” shall apply to the operation of dine-
in services in hospitals, healthcare facilities, nursing homes, or other
long-term care facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

To the extent that the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Dining Services,” conflict with the provisions of
Section V of this Order, titled “Industry & Commerce,” the provisions
of Section IV shall control.

Page 9 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

V. INDUSTRY, COMMERCE, ORGANIZATIONS, & NON-PROFITS

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Economic Development is
authorized to issue guidance to any business, corporation,
organization, or industry trade group regarding its status as Critical
Infrastructure. This guidance shall not require a finding of fact but
shall be in writing and shall be considered a final agency action for
the purpose of proceedings under Code Section 50-13-19.

IT IS FURTHER

Critical Infrastructure that continue in-person operation during the
effective dates of this Order shall implement measures which
mitigate the exposure and spread of COVID-19 Such measures may
include, but shall not be limited to the following, which shall be
implemented to the maximum extent practicable:

1. Screening and evaluating workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or
shortness of breath;

Requiring workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to

work or to seek medical attention;

Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;

Disinfecting common surfaces regularly;

Requiring handwashing or sanitation by workers at

appropriate places within the business location;

Prohibiting Gatherings of workers during working hours;

Permitting workers to take breaks and lunch outside, in their

office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where

proper social distancing is attainable;

8. Implementing teleworking for all possible workers;

9. Implementing staggered shifts for all possible workers;

10. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

11. Delivering intangible services remotely, whenever possible;

12, Discouraging workers from using other workers’ phones,
desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;

13. Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

14. If in use, open sales registers must be at least six (6) feet apart;

15. Point of sale equipment should be frequently cleaned and
sanitized;

16. Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen; and

bX

NA TRY

Page 10 of 26

ORDERED:

17.

Suspending the use of Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,
and any other credit card receipt signature requirements to
the extent such suspension is permitted by agreements with
credit card companies and credit agencies.

IT IS FURTHER

That

all businesses, establishments, corporations, non-profit

corporations, or organizations that are not Critical Infrastructure
that continue in-person operations during the effective dates of this
Order shall implement measures which mitigate the exposure and
spread of COVID-19 among its workforce. Such measures shall
include the following:

1.

AMD

12.
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Screening and evaluating workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or
shortness of breath;

Ifa retail business, posting a sign on the storefront stating that
individuals who have a fever or other symptoms of COVID-19
shall not enter the store;

Requiring workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to
work or to seek medical attention;

Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;
Disinfecting common surfaces regularly;

Requiring hand washing or sanitation by workers at
appropriate places within the business location;

Prohibiting Gatherings of workers during working hours;
Permitting workers to take breaks and meals outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper Social Distancing is attainable;

. Implementing teleworking for all possible workers;
10.
11.

Implementing staggered shifts for all possible workers;
Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

Delivering intangible services remotely, whenever possible;
Discouraging workers from using other workers’ phones,
desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;
Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen;

Enforcing Social Distancing of non-cohabitating persons
while present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

For retailers and service providers, providing for alternative
points of sale outside of buildings, including curbside pick-up

Page 11 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

or delivery of products and/or services if an alternative point
of sale is permitted under Georgia law;

18. Open sales registers must be at least six (6) feet apart;

19. Point of sale equipment should be frequently cleaned and
sanitized;

20. Increasing physical space between workers and patrons; and

21.Suspending the use of Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,
and any other credit card receipt signature requirements to
the extent such suspension is permitted by agreements with
credit card companies and credit agencies.

IT IS FURTHER

That Critical Infrastructure and all other businesses, establishments,
corporations, non-profit corporations, or organizations that
continue in-person operation during the effective dates of this Order
should implement the following measures if practicable:

1. Providing Personal Protective Equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the worker within
the business location;

2, Providing disinfectant and sanitation products for workers to
clean their workspace, equipment, and tools; and

3. Increasing physical space between workers’ worksites to at
least six (6) feet.

IT IS FURTHER

That all live public swimming pools, performance venues, operators
of amusement rides as defined by Code Section 25-15-51, and
businesses which possess a license to operate as or otherwise meet
the definition of “bar” as defined by Code Section 3-1-2(2.1) shall
not engage in in-person operations and shall remain closed to the
public while this Order is in effect.

IT IS FURTHER

That all retail businesses, including Food Establishments (such as
retail and wholesale grocery stores), as defined by Ga. Comp. R. &
Regs. R, 40-7-1-.02 but not to include food processing plants or
wholesale sandwich and salad manufacturers, shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, as
practicable. Such measures shall include:

1. Limiting the number of patrons inside the store to 50% of fire
capacity occupancy or eight (8) patrons per 1,000 square feet;
2. Encouraging patrons to use hand sanitizer upon entering;

Page 12 of 26

ORDERED:

Dn TRY

7.

Encouraging non-cash payments when possible;

Sanitizing entrance and exit doors at least three times per day;
Encouraging workers to report any safety and health concerns
to the employer;

Installing protective screens or other mitigation measures
where worker-patron interactions are likely; and

Providing additional hand sanitizer within the business.

IT 1S FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, Food
Establishments (such as retail and wholesale grocery stores), as
defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. R. 40-7-1-.02 but not to include food
processing plants or wholesale sandwich and salad manufacturers,
shall implement additional measures to those listed above as
practicable. Such measures may include, but shall not be limited to
the following, which shall be implemented to the maximum extent
practicable:

1.

2.

3.

‘oO

Scheduling specific hours of operation for vulnerable
populations to shop without other patrons;
Reducing store hours to allow for increased cleaning and
sanitation while the store is closed;
Enacting policies and procedures to encourage Social
Distancing for patrons and employees. Measures may include:
a. Protective Plexiglass screens at service counters and at
cash registers;
b. Decals on the floor or aisles with messaging on Social
Distancing;
c. Signs throughout the store giving visuals on Social
Distancing;
d. Limited occupancy if store becomes too crowded; and
e. Use of one-way aisles
Providing Personal Protective Equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the worker within
the business location;
Encouraging patrons to wear face coverings;
Utilizing in-store messaging to educate and remind patrons
and employees on recommended hygiene and Social
Distancing;
Discontinuing sampling or cooking stations;
Closing self-serve salad bars and buffets;

. Adding additional staff to specifically oversee increased

sanitation of grocery carts, and other high-touch areas such as
door handles, point of sales equipment, conveyor belts, and
other surfaces;

Page 13 of 26

ORDERED:

10.

11.

12.

13.

Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing based
on frequency of use, and ensuring adequate supply of soap
and paper towels at all times;

Allowing time for frequent hand washing for employees,
including cashiers, that interact directly with patrons;
Increasing or add hand sanitizing stations around stores for
patrons and employees; and

Procuring options with third-party cleaning companies to
assist with the increased cleaning demands as needed.

IT IS FURTHER

That,

effective immediately, in addition to the applicable

requirements above, gyms and fitness centers shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, as
practicable. Such measures shall include:

1,

10.

11.

Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons that they
cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19, had
symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a person that has
or is suspected to have COVID-19;

. Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility to

instruct patrons of the enhanced sanitation procedures, Social
Distancing requirements, and other instructions and
limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

Screening patrons at entrance. Patrons exhibiting a
temperature greater than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough,
shortness of breath, or other respiratory symptoms shall not
be permitted to enter;

Limiting occupancy to enforce Social Distancing
requirements and to prohibit Gatherings;

Utilizing contactless forms of patron check-in;

Providing hand sanitizer stations for patrons and encouraging
use;

Providing sanitation wipes at or near each piece of equipment
and requiring users to wipe down the equipment before and
after use;

Requiring workers to patrol patron areas to enforce the
equipment wipe-down policy and conduct additional
cleanings during times when equipment is not being used;

. Limiting use of cardio machines to every other machine to

maintain acceptable Social Distancing between users;
Enforcing Social Distancing and prohibiting congregating
between non-cohabitating patrons. Patrons should be
encouraged to conduct their workout and exit the facility
without unnecessary delay;

Halting the provision of group classes;

Page 14 of 26

ORDERED:

12. Halting the provision of in-facility child care services;

13. Closing the following facilities and equipment within a gym or
fitness center: pools, basketball courts and other group sport
areas, hot-tubs, saunas, steam rooms, and tanning beds;

14. Limit locker room use and avoid use if possible;

15. Requiring patrons to spray showers with a provided cleaning
spray after use; and

16. Requiring workers to clean and sanitize bathrooms and locker
rooms regularly throughout the opening hours in addition to
the regular cleaning schedule.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, in addition to the applicable
requirements above, body art studios permitted pursuant to Code
Section 31-40-2, businesses registered pursuant to Code Sections 43-
10-11 and 43-10-18, estheticians as defined by Code Section 43-10-
1(8), hair designers as defined by Code Section 43-10-1(9), persons
licensed to practice massage therapy pursuant to Code Section 43-
24A-8, and tanning facilities as defined by Code Section 31-38-1(6)
shall implement additional measures to prevent the spread of
COVID-19, as practicable. Such measures shall include:

1. Providing services by appointment only. Walk-in patrons
should not be allowed;

2. Patrons should be required to sanitize their hands upon
entering the facility and before any treatment;

3. Providing hand sanitizer or sanitization wipes to patrons
upon arrival;

4. Posting signs at the entrance and at eye-level at each
workstation stating that any patron who has symptoms of
COVID-19 must reschedule their appointment;

5. Allowing only one patron per service provider in the business
at any one time;

6. Allowing one parent to be within a facility if a minor child is
receiving a haircut;

7. Requiring patrons to wait in car their until service provider is
ready;

8. Staggering use of every-other workstation or spacing
workstations more than ten (10) feet apart, whichever option
is practicable given the facility’s configuration;

g. Staggering work schedules so that no more than 50% of the
normal number of employees providing services will be in the
business at a time;

10. Requiring all employees to wear Personal Protective
Equipment as available and appropriate to the function and
location of the worker within the business location;

Page 15 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

11. Sanitizing all equipment, chairs, and tables used by employees

and patrons between each client visit;

12. Utilizing disposable materials and supplies as much as

practicable according to state rules and regulations; and

13. Training all employees on additional measures both verbally

and in writing.

IT 1S FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, indoor movie
theaters and cinemas choosing to operate during the effective dates
of this Order shall implement additional measures to prevent the
spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1,

7.
8.

Each party of patrons must be seated at least six (6) feet apart.
No party seated together may number more than six (6)
individuals;

At least one usher must be used in each theater room before
and at some point, during each showing to ensure that proper
Social Distancing protocol is enforced;

Seats, armrests, handrails, doors, doorknobs, and door
handles in each theater must be thoroughly sanitized before
and after each showing;

Tape must be applied to floors at ticket counters and
concession stands to enforce proper Social Distancing
protocol for patrons who are waiting in line;

Restrooms must be cleaned and disinfected regularly, and
touchpoints must cleaned no less than once per hour;

Food service areas must adhere to the same guidelines set
forth in Section IV, titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”,
above;

Party rooms located at theaters may not host parties or
Gatherings; and

Closing playgrounds and arcade rooms, if any.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, bowling alleys
choosing to operate during the effective dates of this Order shall
implement additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Such measures shall include:

1,

2.

Placing signage at entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct patrons of Social Distancing requirements and other
instructions and limitations, as applicable;

Providing hand sanitizer stations for patrons throughout the
facility;

Page 16 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

3. Food service areas must adhere to the same guidelines set
forth in Section IV, titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”,
above;

4. Tape must be applied to floors at ticket counters and rental
stations to enforce proper Social Distancing protocol for
patrons who are waiting in line;

5. Removing items from all self-service bowling ball, bowling
shoe, and other bowling accessory stations and have workers
provide such items to patrons directly;

6. Allowing groups of six (6) patrons or less per lane;

7. Staggering use of lanes so that only every other lane or every
third lane is in use to maintain proper Social Distancing
between groups of patrons. Each party of patrons must be
seated at least six (6) feet apart;

8. Score keeping machines, ball returns, tables, seats, and other
fixtures at each bowling lane must be thoroughly sanitized
before and after each use;

9. Bowling balls and bowling shoes must be thoroughly sanitized
before and after each use;

10. Party rooms located at bowling alleys may not host parties or
Gatherings; and

11. Closing playgrounds and arcade rooms, if any.

IT IS FURTHER

That in instances where persons are working outdoors without
regular contact with other persons, such as delivery services,
contractors, landscape businesses, and agricultural industry
services, such persons shall only be required to practice Social
Distancing and implement sanitation processes in accordance with
the guidelines published by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

IT IS FURTHER

That the authorizations to hold meetings of shareholders by remote
communications during the Public Health State of Emergency in
Georgia in Executive Order No. 03.20.20.02 is hereby extended to
apply to meetings being held by remote communication pursuant to
Code Sections 14-2-701, 14-2-702, 14-3-701, and 14-3-702 regardless
of whether such meeting is to occur during the Public Health State of
Emergency. In each case, the notice of meeting required by Code
Section 14-2-705 or Code Section 14-3-705 must be duly provided or
given during the Public Health State of Emergency.

Page 17 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

VI, HEALTHCARE

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, any person, service, or entity delivering
healthcare during the effective dates of this Order shall adhere to the
guidelines listed in Section V for Critical Infrastructure in addition to
the guidelines listed in this Section.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, in addition to compliance with the
guidelines for Critical Infrastructure, dental practices, and clinics
that continue in-person operation during the effective dates of this
Order shall adhere to the American Dental Association’s Interim
Guidance for Minimizing Risk of COVID-19 Transmission and
Interim Mask and Face Shield Guidelines and that any previous
Executive Order or rule which would prevent dental practices and
clinics from providing the full scope of their services subject to the
above requirements is hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, in addition to compliance with the
guidelines for Critical Infrastructure, licensed optometrists and their
staff that continue in-person operation during the effective dates of
this Order shall adhere to the American Optometric Association’s
Practice Reactivation Preparedness Guide and the Georgia
Optometric Association’s COVID-19 guidelines for practices issued
March 17, 2020 and updated April 20, 2020. Any previous executive
order or departmental rule which would prevent optometrists from
providing the full scope of their services subject to the above
requirements is hereby suspended.

IT 1S FURTHER

That, effective immediately, in addition to compliance with the
guidelines for Critical Infrastructure, licensed opticians and their
staff that continue in-person operation during the effective dates of
this Order shall adhere to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s Recommendations for Office Disinfection and
Recommendations for Employers. Any previous executive order or
departmental rule which would prevent opticians from providing the
full scope of their services subject to the above requirements is
hereby suspended.

Page 18 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, in addition to compliance with the
guidelines for Critical Infrastructure, Ambulatory Surgical Centers
that continue in-person operation during the effective dates of this
Order shall implement additional measures to prevent the spread of
COVID-19 as practicable. Such measures may include, but shall not
be limited to the following, which shall be implemented to the
maximum extent practicable:

1.

Screening patients before visits and monitoring their health
prior to starting surgery as part of the pre-operative
procedure;

Requiring staff to self-monitor and screen for viral symptoms
daily;

Continuing to use Personal Protective Equipment per the
latest Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
recommendations for all procedures;

Following waiting room spacing guidelines, Social Distancing,
face masking, and other recommended procedures for
patients and visitors prior to entering the facility;

Ensuring heightened disinfection to prevent and mitigate risk
of spread;

Ensuring patients have been medically cleared by their
primary care physician where applicable;

Balancing the needs of patient care with the risk of providing
that care by prioritizing procedures for patients who have
lower co-morbidities and surgical risks and procedures
accompanied by lower risk with regard to airborne
transmission and those with minimal risk of unintended
hospital admissions;

. Performing regular rapid COVID-19 testing on providers and

employees where feasible; and

Performing COVID-19 testing on patients suspected to be
experiencing COVID-19 and factoring the results of such
testing into clinical decisions as to whether or not to proceed
with procedures.

IT IS FURTHER

Any previous executive order or departmental rule which would
prevent ambulatory surgical centers from providing the full scope of
their services subject to the above requirements is hereby suspended.

Page 19 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT 1S FURTHER
That to the extent possible, hospitals, healthcare institutions,

medical facilities, nursing homes, and other long-term care facilities
should offer in-room dining.

VIL. EDUCATION & CHILDREN

IT IS FURTHER

Nothing in this Order shall prevent any school, technical school,
college, or university from requiring faculty and staff to attend
meetings or other necessary activities at a school or facility for the
purpose of supporting distance learning, research, administration,
maintenance, or preparation for the 2020-2021 school year.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, for the purposes of all Child Care
Learning Centers and Family Child Learning Homes under the
jurisdiction of the Georgia Department of Early Care and Learning
(hereinafter, “childcare facilities”), the term “Single Location” shall
mean a single classroom.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, all childcare facilities shall cease
transporting children for any purpose other than transporting
children between their place of residence and the childcare facility.
To the greatest extent possible, all permissible transports shall be
conducted in such a way that maintains Social Distancing.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, in addition to the requirements for
businesses, establishments, corporations, non-profit corporations,
or organizations that are not Critical Infrastructure set forth in
Section V above and the standard hygiene, sanitation, and
disinfection licensing rules promulgated by the Georgia Department
of Early Care and Learning, all childcare facilities that operate during
the effective dates of this Order shall implement additional
measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall
include the following:

Page 20 of 26

1. Screening and evaluating all children prior to them entering
the classroom for signs of illness or exhibiting a fever over
100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, or shortness of breath;
Prohibiting children from entering a classroom if they exhibit
any of the symptoms in paragraph 1;

Prohibiting unnecessary visitors;

Provide meals in classrooms rather than in a congregated or

communal setting;

Restrict families’ access to the front door of the facility or the

door of their respective child’s classroom only;

Surfaces and objects that are frequently touched must be

sanitized regularly, including, but not limited to, toys, games,

and objects or surfaces not ordinarily cleaned daily;

7. Toys and games that cannot be cleaned and sanitized should
not be used;

8. Toys that children have placed in their mouths or that are
otherwise contaminated by body secretions or excretions
should be set aside until they are cleaned by hand by a person
wearing gloves;

9. Machine-washable cloth toys should be used by one
individual at a time or should not be used at all and should be
laundered before being used by another child;

10. Toys used by a group of children must be washed and
sanitized before they may be used by children in a different
group or classroom;

11. Items that need to be cleaned should be set aside in a dish pan
with soapy water or in a separate container marked for soiled
toys;

12. Only bedding (sheets, pillows, blankets, and sleeping bags)
that can be washed may be used. Each child’s bedding must
be kept separate and, to the extent practicable, should be
stored in individually labeled bins, cubbies, or bags. Cots and
mats should be labeled for each child, and any bedding that
touches a child’s skin should be cleaned weekly or before use
by any other child; and

13. Workers should sign children in and out of the facility for
families if a computer or keypad system inside the facility is
used. If a tablet located outside the facility is used by families
during drop-off and pick-up, the tablet must be disinfected
after each use. If a paper sign-in system is used for sign-in,
writing utensils should be sanitized after each use if families
are permitted to sign children in themselves.

io

nn BY

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That, effective immediately, Code Section 15-11-2(10) relating to the
definition of “child” is suspended for the limited purpose of ensuring

Page 21 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

that persons in the care of the Georgia Division of Family & Children
Services who age out of the definition of “child” during the Public
Health State of Emergency shall be eligible to remain in their
placement and continue to receive services for a duration of ninety
(90) days following the termination of the Public Health State of
Emergency or any extension thereof. This suspension shall apply to
Code Section 15-11-2(10), effective until July 1, 2020, and upon
expiration to Code Section 15-11-2(10), effective July 1, 2020. That
any Georgia Division of Family & Children Services policies shall also
align with this provision.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, no provision of this Order shall limit,
infringe, suspend, or supplant any custodial arrangements created
pursuant to the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or
constitution of the United States, nor shall any person use any
provision this Order as a defense to an action in violation of a
custodial arrangement by any court created pursuant to the laws or
constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the United
States.

VIII. COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, the requirements of Code Section 36-70-
27 and 50-8-8 are hereby suspended to the extent that they would
prevent local governments from being eligible to receive state
funding for expenditures made during the current Public Health
State of Emergency related to the prevention, treatment, or
mitigation of COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, the audit reporting deadline imposed
upon local governments by Code Section 36-81-7(d) is hereby
extended by ninety (90) days for any local government that by virtue
of their fiscal year end date will have an audit due at any time during
the Public Health State of Emergency or within ninety (90) days after
the Public Health State of Emergency is terminated or ceases to be
renewed by the Governor.

Page 22 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, the deadline for submission of the local
government finances reports and local government indebtedness
reports required of local governments under Code Section 36-81-8
shall hereby be extended by ninety (90) days for any local
government that by virtue of their fiscal year end date will have such
reports due during the Public Health State of Emergency or within
90 days after the Public Health State of Emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, the grant certification form reporting
deadlines imposed upon local governments by Code Section 36-81-
8.1 are hereby extended by ninety (90) days for any local government
that by virtue of their fiscal year end date will have a grant
certification form due at any time during the Public Health State of
Emergency or within ninety (90) days after the Public Health State
of Emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That county and municipal governments are authorized and
empowered to make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and
regulations as may be necessary for emergency management
purposes and to supplement the carrying out of this Order, but such
orders, rules, and regulations shall not be inconsistent with this
Order or any other orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the
Governor or by any state agency exercising a power derived from the
Public Health State of Emergency declaration. For the purpose of this
provision, orders, rules, and regulations that are promulgated by
county and municipal governments that are more or less restrictive
than the terms of this Order shall be considered inconsistent with
this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That the operation of Critical Infrastructure shall not be impeded by
county, municipal, or local ordinance.

Page 23 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IX. DRIVERS’ SERVICES

IT IS FURTHER

That, effective immediately, the provision of Code Section 40-5-27(a)
requiring the Department of Driver Services to examine every
applicant for a driver’s license with a comprehensive on-the-road
driving test is hereby suspended and applicants for a driver’s license
shall not be required to complete a comprehensive on-the-road
driving test, provided all other requirements outlined in Code
Section 40-5-27 are met. This provision shall expire at the conclusion
of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order
03.14.20.01 and renewed by Executive Order 04.08.20.02. If the
Public Health State of Emergency is renewed, this provision shall
carry forward with the Public Health State of Emergency until such
State of Emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the
Governor.

IT 1S FURTHER

That, effective immediately, the provision of Code Section 40-5-
24(a)(2) requiring holders of valid instruction permits, which are not
under suspension, to hold the valid instruction permit for a period of
not less than twelve (12) consecutive months before being eligible for
a Class D driver's license is hereby suspended, and drivers turning
fifteen (15) years of age from March 14, 2020 until the expiration of
the Public Health State of Emergency declared by Executive Order
03.14.20.01 and renewed by Executive Order 04.08.20.02., or any
extension thereof, shall be eligible for a Class D driver’s license upon
turning sixteen (16) years of age, provided all other requirements
outlined in Code Sections 40-5-22(a.2) and 40-5-24(a)(2) are met.
This provision shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health
State of Emergency declared in Executive Order 03.14.20.01 and
renewed by Executive Order 04.08.20.02. If the Public Health State
of Emergency is renewed, this provision shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such State of Emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

xX. ENFORCEMENT

IT IS FURTHER

That the state agencies with primary regulatory authority over the
entities listed in this Order and the Commissioner of the Department
of Public Safety shall provide resources as requested to assist in the
enforcement of this Order.

Page 24 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, any person who violates this
Order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Officials enforcing this Order
should take reasonable steps to provide notice prior to issuing a
citation or making an arrest. No provision of this Order shall limit
the ability of law enforcement officers to enforce the laws of this
State. Particularly, the provisions of Code Section 38-3-4 remain in
effect, and all law enforcement is authorized to enforce the Orders
issued pursuant to Title 38, Chapter 3.

IT IS FURTHER

That any law enforcement officer, after providing reasonable notice
and issuing at least two citations for violations of Code Section 38-3-
7, is authorized to mandate the closure of any business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation, or organization
not in compliance with this Order for a period not to extend beyond
the term of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER
That pursuant to Executive Order 04.02.20.01 and Code Section 38-

3-51, enforcement of any county or municipal ordinance or order that
is more or less restrictive than this Order is hereby suspended.

XI. MISCELLANEOUS

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control, Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any
Quarantine or Isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Department of Public Health shall control.

IT IS FURTHER
That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the

sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof,

Page 25 of 26

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that
the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

Ir IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the

scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

XII. EFFECTIVE DATE & SIGNATURE

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature,

This 23" day of April 2020, at s .$) P.M.

BPL

GOVERNOR

Page 26 of 26
