EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

REVIVING A HEALTHY GEORGIA

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

On April 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until June 12, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.30.20.01; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vests the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said
individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Corporations that are calling and holding meetings of shareholders
pursuant to Code Sections 14-2-701 or 14-2-702 are required to
deliver advance notice and meet other legal requirements under the
laws of the State of Georgia, as well as the federal securities laws of
the United States, in advance of convening such meetings; and

In consultation with the Governor’s Coronavirus Task Force and
health and emergency preparedness officials, I have determined that
the following actions are necessary and appropriate to protect the
strength of Georgia’s economy and provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA

LAW, CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME
AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

That unless otherwise noted, the provisions contained in this Order
shall be effective from May 14, 2020 at 12:00 A.M. until May 31, 2020
at 11:59 P.M.

Ir IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice
Social Distancing as defined herein and refrain from Gathering as
defined herein.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are strongly
encouraged to wear face coverings as practicable while outside their
homes or place of residence, except when eating, drinking, or
exercising outdoors.

IT IS FURTHER

All residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice
sanitation in accordance with the guidelines published by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

IT IS FURTHER

That no business, establishment, corporation, non-profit

corporation, organization, or county or municipal government shall
allow Gatherings of persons. This provision shall not apply to

Page 2 of 30

ORDERED:

cohabitating persons, family units, or roommates residing together
in private homes, whether inside or outside of their homes or place
of residence. This provision shall also not apply to entities defined as
“Critical Infrastructure.”

I. DEFINITIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That the following definitions shall apply to this Order:

1. “Camper” shall mean any person that attends a Summer
Camp as a participant. This provision shall specifically
exclude those persons who volunteer or work at Summer
Camps.

2. “Critical Infrastructure” shall include all Workers, businesses,
establishments, corporations, non-profit corporations, and
organizations included in versions 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0 of
Guidance on Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers
released by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security on
March 19, 2020, March 28, 2020, and April 17, 2020,
respectively. The term “Critical Infrastructure” shall also
include those suppliers which provide essential goods and
services to the Critical Infrastructure workforce as well as
entities that provide legal services, home hospice, and non-
profit corporations or non-profit organizations that offer food
distribution or other health or mental health services.

3. “Essential Services” shall include those activities outlined
below.

A. Obtaining necessary supplies and services for family or
household members, such as food and supplies for
household consumption and use, medical supplies or
medication, supplies and equipment needed to work
from home, and products needed to maintain safety,
sanitation, and essential maintenance of the home or
residence. Preference should be given to online
ordering, home delivery, and curbside pick-up services
wherever possible as opposed to in-store shopping.
Engaging in activities essential for the health and safety
of family or household members.

Seeking medical, behavioral health, or emergency

services,

Activities that may preserve the health and welfare of

persons within this State.

The transport, visitation, and regular care of family

members and persons dependent on the services of

w

Hoo 8

Page 3 of 30

10.

11.

12.

others, and similar actions that ensure the welfare and
best interests of persons in the State of Georgia,
specifically including the elderly, children, and
disabled populations.

F. Children obtaining public internet access to fulfill
educational obligations.

G. Engaging in outdoor exercise activities so long as Social
Distancing is practiced during such activities between
all persons who are not occupants of the same
household or residence.

“Gathering” shall mean more than ten (10) persons physically
present at a Single Location if, to be present, persons are
required to stand or be seated within six (6) feet of any other
person. Therefore, groups of more than ten (10) people are
permitted if their grouping is transitory or incidental, or if
their grouping is the result of being spread across more than
one Single Location.

“Hand Sanitizer” shall mean any hand antiseptic, hand rub,
soap, or agent applied to the hands for the purpose of
removing common pathogens.

“Necessary Travel” shall mean such travel as is required to
conduct or participate in Essential Services or Critical
Infrastructure as defined by this Order.

“Personal Protective Equipment” shall mean surgical masks,
N95 masks, respirators, other facemasks, protective gloves,
protective clothing, protective garments, and shoe coverings.
“Restaurants and Dining Rooms” shall mean any entity
defined as a “food service establishment” pursuant to Code
Section 26-2-370(2).

“Shelter in Place” shall mean a person is required to remain in
their home or place of residence and take every possible
precaution to limit social interaction to prevent the spread or
infection of COVID-19 to themselves or any other person,
subject to the provisions and exceptions of this Order.

“Single Location” shall mean a space where all persons
gathered cannot maintain at least six (6) feet of distance
between themselves and any other person.

“Social Distancing” shall mean keeping space between
yourself and other people outside of your home or place of
residence. Persons practicing Social Distancing should stay at
least six (6) feet from other people, avoid assembling in
groups, avoid crowded places, and avoid large crowds. This
provision shall not apply to cohabitating persons, family
units, or roommates residing together in private homes,
whether inside or outside of their homes or place of residence.
“Summer Camp” shall mean any entity offering organized
sessions of supervised recreational, athletic, or instructional

Page 4 of 30

13.

activities held between typical school terms. This term shall
include those entities commonly referred to as “day camps.”
“Worker” shall include employees, independent contractors,
agents, volunteers, or other representatives of a business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation,
organization, or other entity.

ILI. SHELTERING IN PLACE

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That pursuant to Executive Order 04.30.20.01, this Section, titled
“Sheltering in Place” shall be effective until Friday, June 12, 2020, at
11:59 P.M.

Ir IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia who meet the
following criteria for higher risk of severe illness as defined by the
Centers for Disease Control] and Prevention are required to Shelter
in Place within their homes or places of residence:

1,

Those persons who are 65 years of age or older.

2. Those persons who live in a nursing home or long-term care

ATHY

facility, including inpatient hospice, assisted living
communities, personal care homes, intermediate care homes,
community living arrangements, and community integration
homes.

Those persons who have chronic lung disease.

Those persons who have moderate to severe asthma.

Those persons who have severe heart disease.

Those persons who are immunocompromised. Many
conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised,
including cancer treatment, smoking, bone marrow or organ
transplantation, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV
or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other
immune weakening medication.

Those persons, of any age, with class III or severe obesity.
Those persons diagnosed with the following underlying
medical conditions: diabetes, liver disease, and persons with
chronic kidney disease undergoing dialysis.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That persons required to Shelter in Place shall be permitted to
engage in the following activities:

Page 5 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

1. Conducting or participating in Essential Services;

2. Performing Necessary Travel;

3. Engaging in gainful employment or the performance of, or
travel to and from the performance of, minimum necessary
activities to maintain the value of a business, establishment,
corporation, non-profit corporation, or organization not
classified as Critical Infrastructure; or

4. Working in or for Critical Infrastructure and being actively
engaged in the performance of, or travel to and from, their
respective employment.

IT IS FURTHER

That persons required to Shelter in Place shall not receive visitors,
except as follows:

1. Visitors providing medical, behavioral health, or emergency
services or medical supplies or medication, including home
hospice;

2. Visitors providing support for the person to conduct activities
of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living;

3. Visitors providing necessary supplies and services, such as
food and supplies for household consumption and _ use,
supplies and equipment needed to work from home, and
products needed to maintain safety, sanitation, and essential
maintenance of the home or residence; or

4. Visitors received during end-of-life circumstances.

To the extent practicable under the circumstances, visitors shall
maintain a minimum distance of six (6) feet between themselves and
all other occupants of the person’s home or residence. Any visitors
visiting for the sole purpose of delivering medication, supplies, or
other tangible goods shall, to the extent practicable, deliver such
items in a manner that does not require in-person contact or require
the deliverer to enter the person’s home or residence.

IT IS FURTHER

That the provisions of this Order related to visitors listed in the
immediately preceding paragraph shall be strictly enforced upon
nursing homes or other long-term care facilities, including inpatient
hospice, assisted living communities, personal care homes,
intermediate care homes, community living arrangements, and
community integration homes.

IT IS FURTHER

Page 6 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

That an exception to any Shelter in Place requirement set forth
hereunder applies in the event of an emergency. In such cases,
persons are encouraged to leave their homes or residences and
Shelter in Place in accordance with the rules included in this Order
at a safe alternate location. Persons experiencing homelessness are
urged to obtain shelter and contact governmental and other entities
for assistance.

IV. RESTAURANTS & DINING SERVICES

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of Section IV of this Order, titled “Restaurants
& Dining Services,” the term “Single Location” as used in the
definition of “Gatherings” in Section I of this Order shall mean 300
square feet of public space. This formula shall only apply to patrons.
Therefore, for restaurants, no more than ten (10) patrons should be
allowed in the facility per 300 square feet of public space. In
calculating the total number of public space square feet, such
calculation shall include waiting and bar areas as well as patios or
any outdoor dining space, if any, but shall not include hallways,
restrooms, and spaces closed to patrons.

IT IS FURTHER

All Restaurants and Dining rooms that operate during the effective
dates of this Order shall implement measures which mitigate the
exposure and spread of COVID-19 among its patrons and workforce.
Such measures shall include the following:

1. Screen and evaluate Workers who exhibit signs of illness, such
as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, shortness of
breath or difficulty breathing, fever, chills, muscle pain, sore
throat, or new loss of taste or smell;

2. Require Workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report to
work or to seek medical attention. Per existing U.S. Food and
Drug Administration Food Code requirements, Workers who
are sick should remain home. If a Worker becomes ill or
presents signs of illness at work, the operator should identify
the Worker’s condition during a pre-work screening and send
the Worker home. Restaurants shall create, maintain, and
follow established policies regarding when Workers who have
become ill are permitted to return to work. A Worker with
known or suspected COVID-19 must follow Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention guidelines to self-isolate for
at least ten (40) days after symptom onset and end isolation
only after symptoms have improved and the Worker has been

Page 7 of 30

Dn MEY

10.
11.

12,

13.
14.
15.
16.

17.
18.

19.

fever-free and/or symptom-free for three (3) consecutive days
without medication before returning to work;

Implement teleworking for all possible Workers;

Implement staggered shifts for all possible Workers;

Hold all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

Train all Workers on the importance and expectation of
increased frequency of handwashing, the use of hand
sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol, and provide clear
instruction to avoid touching hands to face;

Require all Workers to wear face coverings at all times.
Workers may also wear face shields in addition to their face
coverings. Such face coverings and face shields shall be
cleaned or replaced daily;

. Discourage Workers from using other Workers’ phones,

desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;

Where possible, stagger workstations to avoid Workers
standing adjacent to one another or next to each other. Where
six (6) feet of separation is not possible, consider spacing
options that include other mitigation efforts with increased
frequency of cleaning and sanitizing surfaces;

Establish a limit for the maximum number of Workers
permitted in Worker break rooms to reduce contact;

Prohibit handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

Enforce Social Distancing of non-cohabitating persons while
present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

Increase physical space between Workers and patrons;

Limit contact between wait staff and patrons;

Discard all food items that are out of date;

Discontinue use of salad bars and buffets, unless the salad bar
or buffet is being used for cafeteria style service where a
Worker is responsible for serving the patron, handling the
utensils, and ensuring proper distancing in lines;

If providing a “grab and go” service, stock coolers to no more
than minimum levels;

Ensure the Food Safety Manager certification of the person in
charge is up-to-date and provide food handler training to
refresh Workers;

Thoroughly detail, clean, and sanitize the entire facility prior
to resuming dine-in services and continue to do so regularly,
focusing such cleaning and sanitation on high contact areas
that would be touched by Workers and/or patrons;

20.Between diners, clean and sanitize table condiments, digital

ordering devices, check presenters, self-service areas,
tabletops, and commonly touched areas, and discarding
single-use items;

Page 8 of 30

21. Use rolled silverware and eliminate table presets;

22,Remove items from self-service drink, condiment, utensil,
and tableware stations and have Workers provide such items
to patrons directly wherever practicable;

23.The use of disposable paper menus is strongly encouraged,
which should be discarded after each patron use. Otherwise,
businesses subject to this Section shall clean and sanitize
reusable menus between each use by a patron. Non-touch
menus are also acceptable for use.

24.Clean and sanitize restrooms regularly, check restrooms
based on the frequency of use, and ensure adequate supply of
soap and paper towels at all times;

25.Implement procedures to increase cleaning and sanitizing
frequency of surfaces in the back-of-house. Avoid all food
contact surfaces when using disinfectants;

26. Verify that ware-washing machines are operating at the
required wash and rinse temperatures and with the
appropriate detergents and sanitizers;

27, Update floor plans for common dining areas, redesigning
seating arrangements to ensure at least six (6) feet of
separation from seating to seating. Utilize physical barriers
on booth seating when available to ensure Social Distancing;

28. Limit party size at tables to no more than ten (10);

29. Where practical, consider a reservations-only business model
or call-ahead seating;

30.Remind third-party delivery drivers and any suppliers of your
internal distancing requirements;

31. Post signage on entrances that no one with a fever or
symptoms of COVID-19 is permitted in the facility;

32.Where practicable, physical barriers such as partitions or
Plexiglas at registers should be used;

33. Use technological solutions where possible to reduce person-
to-person interaction: mobile ordering, mobile access to
menus to plan in advance, text on arrival for seating, and
contactless payment options;

34.Provide hand sanitizer for use by patrons, including
contactless hand sanitizing stations when available;

35.Do not allow patrons to congregate in waiting areas or bar
areas. Design a process to ensure patron separation while
waiting to be seated that can include floor markings, outdoor
distancing, or waiting in cars;

36.I1f possible, use an exit from the facility separate from the
entrance;

37. Mark ingress/egress to and from restrooms to establish paths
that mitigate proximity for patrons and staff;

38.Where practicable, take-out and curbside pick-up services
should be prioritized over dine-in services; and

Page 9 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

39. All restaurant or dining room playgrounds shall be closed.
IT IS FURTHER

That none of the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Dining Services,” shall apply to the operation of dine-
in services in hospitals, health care facilities, nursing homes, or other
long-term care facilities, however such facilities should implement
measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 if possible.

IT IS FURTHER

That the routine inspection timelines under Georgia Administrative
Rule 511-6-1-.10(2) may be extended by the Georgia Department of
Public Health by one hundred twenty (120) days for any permit
holder of a food service establishment maintaining an “A” food safety
grade for any such food service establishment which was scheduled
to have a routine inspection at any time between March 14, 2020 and
September 10, 2020.

IT IS FURTHER

To the extent that the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Dining Services,” conflict with the provisions of
Section V of this Order, titled “Industry & Commerce,” the provisions
of Section IV shall control.

V. INDUSTRY, COMMERCE, ORGANIZATIONS, & NON-PROFITS

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Economic Development is
authorized to issue guidance to any business, corporation,
organization, or industry trade group regarding its status as Critical
Infrastructure. This guidance shall not require a finding of fact but
shall be in writing and shall be considered a final agency action for
the purpose of proceedings under Code Section 50-13-19.

IT IS FURTHER

Critical Infrastructure that continue in-person operation during the
effective dates of this Order shall implement measures which
mitigate the exposure and spread of COVID-19. Such measures may
include, but shall not be limited to the following, which shall be
implemented to the maximum extent practicable:

Page 10 of 30

ORDERED:

to

ND BAY

_
52%

11.
12.

13.

14.
15.

16.

17.

Screening and evaluating Workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough,
shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever, chills,
muscle pain, sore throat, or new loss of taste or smell;
Requiring Workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report
to work or to seek medical attention;

Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;
Disinfecting common surfaces regularly;

Requiring handwashing or sanitation by Workers at
appropriate places within the business location;

Prohibiting Gatherings of Workers during working hours;
Permitting Workers to take breaks and lunch outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper Social Distancing is attainable;

. Implementing teleworking for all possible Workers;

Implementing staggered shifts for all possible Workers;

. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever

possible;

Delivering intangible services remotely, whenever possible;
Discouraging Workers from using other Workers’ phones,
desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment;
Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

If in use, open sales registers must be at least six (6) feet apart;
Point of sale equipment should be frequently cleaned and
sanitized;

Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen; and

Frequently disinfecting Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,
and any other credit card receipt signature capture devices if
in use,

IT IS FURTHER

That all businesses, establishments, corporations, non-profit
corporations, or organizations that are not Critical Infrastructure
that continue in-person operations during the effective dates of this
Order shall implement measures which mitigate the exposure and
spread of COVID-19 among its workforce. Such measures shall
include the following:

1.

Screening and evaluating Workers who exhibit signs of illness,
such as a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, ,
shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever, chills,
muscle pain, sore throat, or new loss of taste or smell;

Page 11 of 30

2. Posting a sign on the front of the facility stating that
individuals who have a fever or other symptoms of COVID-19
shall not enter the store;

Requiring Workers who exhibit signs of illness to not report

to work or to seek medical attention;

Enhancing sanitation as appropriate;

Disinfecting common surfaces regularly;

Requiring hand washing or sanitation at appropriate places

within the location;

Prohibiting Gatherings during hours of operation;

. Permitting Workers to take breaks and meals outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper Social Distancing is attainable;

9. Implementing teleworking as practicable;

10. Implementing staggered shifts as practicable;

11. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually as practicable;

12. Delivering intangible services remotely as practicable;

13. Discouraging use of other Worker’s phones, desks, offices, or
other tools and equipment;

14. Prohibiting handshaking and unnecessary person-to-person
contact;

15. Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the facility and in other areas where they are likely to be
seen;

16. Enforcing Social Distancing of non-cohabitating persons
while present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

17. For retailers and service providers, providing for alternative
points of sale outside of buildings, including curbside pick-up
or delivery of products and/or services if an alternative point
of sale is permitted under Georgia law;

18. For retailers and service providers, open sales registers must
be at least six (6) feet apart;

19. Point of sale equipment should be frequently cleaned and
sanitized;

20. Increasing physical space between Workers and patrons;

21. Frequently disinfecting Personal Identification Number
(“PIN”) pads, PIN entry devices, electronic signature capture,
and any other credit card receipt signature capture devices if
in use; and

22. If the entity engages volunteers or has members of the public
participate in activities, prohibiting volunteering or
participation in activities for persons diagnosed with COVID-
19, having exhibited symptoms of COVID-19, or having had
contact with a person that has or is suspected to have COVID-
19 within the past fourteen (14) days.

aga &

con

IT 1S FURTHER

Page 12 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

That Critical Infrastructure and all other businesses, establishments,
corporations, non-profit corporations, or organizations that
continue in-person operation during the effective dates of this Order
should implement the following measures if practicable:

1. Providing Personal Protective Equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the Worker within
the business location;

2. Providing disinfectant and sanitation products for Workers to
clean their workspace, equipment, and tools; and

3. Increasing physical space between Workers’ worksites to at
least six (6) feet.

IT IS FURTHER

That all live performance venues, operators of amusement rides as
defined by Code Section 25-15-51, and businesses which possess a
license to operate as or otherwise meet the definition of “bar” as
defined by Code Section 3-1-2(2.1) shall not engage in in-person
operations and shall remain closed to the public while this Order is
in effect.

IT IS FURTHER

That all retail businesses, including Food Establishments (such as
retail and wholesale grocery stores), as defined by Ga. Comp. R. &
Regs. R. 40-7-1-.02 but not to include food processing plants or
wholesale sandwich and salad manufacturers, shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, as
practicable. Such measures shall include:

1. Limiting the number of patrons inside the store to 50% of fire
capacity occupancy of the entire store or eight (8) patrons per
1,000 square feet;

Encouraging patrons to use hand sanitizer upon entering;
Encouraging non-cash payments when possible;

Sanitizing entrance and exit doors at least three times per day;
Encouraging Workers to report any safety and health
concerns to the employer; and

Installing protective screens or other mitigation measures
where Worker-patron interactions are likely.

an TERY DL

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, Food
Establishments (such as retail and wholesale grocery stores), as
defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. R. 40-7-1-.02 but not to include food

Page 13 of 30

ORDERED:

processing plants or wholesale sandwich and salad manufacturers,
shall implement additional measures to those listed above as
practicable. Such measures may include, but shall not be limited to
the following, which shall be implemented to the maximum extent
practicable:

1.

2.

3.

10.

11.

12.

13.

Scheduling specific hours of operation for vulnerable
populations to shop;
Reducing store hours to allow for increased cleaning and
sanitation while the store is closed;
Enacting policies and procedures to encourage Social
Distancing for patrons and Workers. Measures may include:
a. Protective Plexiglass screens at service counters and at
cash registers;
b. Decals on the floor or aisles with messaging on Social
Distancing;
c. Signs throughout the store giving visuals on Social
Distancing;
d. Limited occupancy if store becomes too crowded; and
e. Use of one-way aisles;
Providing Personal Protective Equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the Worker within
the business location;
Encouraging patrons to wear face coverings;
Utilizing in-store messaging to educate and remind patrons
and Workers on recommended hygiene and_ Social
Distancing;
Discontinuing sampling or cooking stations;
Closing self-serve salad bars and buffets;
Adding additional staff to specifically oversee increased
sanitation of grocery carts, and other high-touch areas such as
door handles, point of sales equipment, conveyor belts, and
other surfaces;
Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing based
on frequency of use, and ensuring adequate supply of soap
and paper towels at all times;
Allowing time for frequent hand washing for Workers,
including cashiers, that interact directly with patrons;
Increasing or add hand sanitizing stations around stores for
patrons and Workers; and
Procuring options with third-party cleaning companies to
assist with the increased cleaning demands as needed.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, gyms and
fitness centers shall implement additional measures to prevent the
spread of COVID-19, as practicable. Such measures shall include:

Page 14 of 30

10.

il.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons that they
cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19, had
symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a person that has
or is suspected to have COVID-19;

Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct patrons of the enhanced sanitation procedures, Social
Distancing requirements, and other instructions and
limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

If Workers are present at the gym or fitness center, screening
patrons at the entrance and prohibiting entrance for patrons
exhibiting a temperature greater than 100.4 degrees
Fahrenheit, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing,
fever, chills, muscle pain, sore throat, or new loss of taste or
smell ;

Limiting occupancy to enforce Social Distancing
requirements and to prohibit Gatherings;

Utilizing contactless forms of patron check-in;

Providing hand sanitizer stations as available for patrons;
Providing antibacterial sanitation wipes as available at or near
each piece of equipment and requiring users to wipe down the
equipment before and after use;

. Requiring Workers, if any, to patrol patron areas to enforce

the equipment wipe-down policy and conduct additional
cleanings during times when equipment is not being used;
Limiting use of cardio machines to every other machine or
distancing machines to maintain acceptable Social Distancing
between users;

Enforcing Social Distancing and prohibiting congregating
between non-cohabitating patrons, especially in pools, group
fitness classes, and in areas where group sports regularly
occur;

Encouraging patrons to conduct their workout and exit the
facility without unnecessary delay;

Complying with the regulations for “Childcare Facilities”
included in Section VII of this Order titled “Children” if
childcare services are provided.

Closing the following facilities and equipment within a gym or
fitness center: hot tubs, saunas, and steam rooms;

Requiring patrons to spray showers with a provided cleaning
spray after use;

In addition to the regular cleaning schedule, cleaning and
sanitizing high touch surfaces, bathrooms, and locker rooms
regularly throughout hours of operation;

Prohibiting patrons from sharing equipment without cleaning
and sanitizing between uses;

Practicing Social Distancing between trainers and patrons as
practicable;

Page 15 of 30

ORDERED:

18.

19.

Requiring no less than ten (10) feet of distance between
patrons participating in group fitness classes; and

Requiring rooms and equipment used for group fitness classes
to be disinfected between classes.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, body art
studios permitted pursuant to Code Section 31-40-2, businesses
registered pursuant to Code Sections 43-10-11 and 43-10-18,
estheticians as defined by Code Section 43-10-1(8), hair designers as
defined by Code Section 43-10-1(9), persons licensed to practice
massage therapy pursuant to Code Section 43-24A-8, and tanning
facilities as defined by Code Section 31-38-1(6) shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, as
practicable. Such measures shall include:

1.

2.

3.

10.

11.

Providing services by appointment only. Walk-in patrons
should not be allowed;

Patrons should be required to sanitize their hands upon
entering the facility and before any treatment;

Providing hand sanitizer or sanitization wipes to patrons
upon arrival;

Posting signs at the entrance and at eye-level at each
workstation stating that any patron who has symptoms of
COVID-19 must reschedule their appointment;

Allowing only one patron per service provider in the business
at any one time;

Allowing one parent to be within a facility if their minor child
is receiving a haircut;

Requiring patrons to wait in their vehicle or outside the
establishment until the service provider is ready, or patrons
may wait in a waiting area inside the facility provided that all
seating within the waiting area is spaced so that no waiting
patron is seated within six (6) feet of any other person and all
waiting patrons are required to wear face coverings;
Staggering use of every-other workstation or spacing
workstations more than ten (10) feet apart, whichever option
is practicable given the facility's configuration;

Staggering work schedules so that no more than 50% of the
normal number of Workers providing services will be in the
business at a time;

Requiring all Workers to wear Personal Protective Equipment
as available and appropriate to the function and location of
the Worker within the business location;

Sanitizing all equipment, chairs, and tables used by Workers
and patrons between each client visit;

Page 16 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

12. Utilizing disposable materials and supplies as much as

practicable according to state rules and regulations; and

13. Training all Workers on additional measures both verbally

and in writing.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, indoor movie
theaters and cinemas choosing to operate during the effective dates
of this Order shall implement additional measures to prevent the
spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1.

7.
8.

Each party of patrons must be seated at least six (6) feet apart.
No party seated together may number more than ten (10)
individuals;

At least one usher must be used in each theater room before
and at some point during each showing to ensure that proper
Social Distancing protocol is enforced;

Seats, armrests, handrails, doors, doorknobs, and door
handles in each theater must be thoroughly sanitized before
and after each showing;

Tape must be applied to floors at ticket counters and
concession stands to enforce proper Social Distancing
protocol for patrons who are waiting in line;

Restrooms must be cleaned and disinfected regularly, and
touchpoints must be cleaned and sanitized no less than once
per hour;

Food service areas must adhere to the same guidelines set
forth in Section IV, titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”,
above;

Party rooms located at theaters may not host parties or
Gatherings; and

Playgrounds, if any, must be closed.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, bowling alleys
choosing to operate during the effective dates of this Order shall
implement additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Such measures shall include:

1.

2.

Placing signage at entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct patrons of Social Distancing requirements and other
instructions and limitations, as applicable;

Providing hand sanitizer stations for patrons throughout the
facility;

Page 17 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

3. Food service areas must adhere to the same guidelines set
forth in Section IV, titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”,
above;

4. Tape must be applied to floors at ticket counters and rental
stations to enforce proper Social Distancing protocol for
patrons who are waiting in line;

5. Removing items from all self-service bowling ball, bowling
shoe, and other bowling accessory stations and having
Workers provide such items to patrons directly;

6. Limiting the number of patrons per lane to groups of ten (10)
or less;

7. Staggering use of lanes so that only every other lane or every
third lane is in use to maintain proper Social Distancing
between groups of patrons. Each party of patrons must be
seated at least six (6) feet apart;

8. Score keeping machines, ball returns, tables, seats, and other
fixtures at each bowling lane must be thoroughly sanitized
before and after each use;

9. Bowling balls and bowling shoes must be thoroughly sanitized
before and after each use;

10, Party rooms located at bowling alleys may not host parties or
Gatherings; and

11. Closing playgrounds, if any.

IT IS FURTHER

That in instances where persons are working outdoors without
regular contact with other persons, such as delivery services,
contractors, landscape businesses, and agricultural industry
services, such persons shall only be required to practice Social
Distancing and implement sanitation processes in accordance with
the guidelines published by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

VI. HEALTHCARE

IT IS FURTHER

That any person, service, or entity delivering healthcare during the
effective dates of this Order shall adhere to the guidelines listed in
Section V for Critical Infrastructure in addition to the guidelines
listed in this Section.

IT IS FURTHER

Page 18 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

That in addition to compliance with the guidelines for Critical
Infrastructure, dental practices and clinics that continue in-person
operation during the effective dates of this Order shall adhere to the
American Dental Association’s Interim Guidance for Minimizing
Risk of COVID-19 Transmission and Interim Mask and Face Shield
Guidelines. Any previous Executive Order or rule which would
prevent dental practices and clinics from providing the full scope of
their services subject to the above requirements is hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to compliance with the guidelines for Critical
Infrastructure, licensed optometrists and their staff that continue in-
person operation during the effective dates of this Order shall
adhere to the American Optometric Association’s Practice
Reactivation Preparedness Guide and the Georgia Optometric
Association’s COVID-19 guidelines for practices issued March 17,
2020 and updated April 20, 2020. Any previous executive order or
departmental rule which would prevent optometrists from providing
the full scope of their services subject to the above requirements is
hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to compliance with the guidelines for Critical
Infrastructure, licensed opticians and their staff that continue in-
person operation during the effective dates of this Order shall
adhere to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s
Recommendations for Office Disinfection and Recommendations for
Employers, Any previous executive order or departmental rule which
would prevent opticians from providing the full scope of their
services subject to the above requirements is hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to compliance with the guidelines for Critical
Infrastructure, Ambulatory Surgical Centers that continue in-person
operation during the effective dates of this Order shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as
practicable. Such measures may include, but shall not be limited to
the following, which shall be implemented to the maximum extent
practicable:

1. Screening patients before visits and monitoring their health
prior to starting surgery as part of the pre-operative
procedure;

Page 19 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

2. Requiring Workers to self-monitor and screen for viral
symptoms daily;

3. Continuing to use Personal Protective Equipment in
accordance with the latest Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention recommendations for all procedures;

4. Following waiting room spacing guidelines, Social Distancing,
face masking, and other recommended procedures for
patients and visitors prior to entering the facility;

5. Ensuring heightened disinfection to prevent and mitigate risk
of spread;

6. Ensuring patients have been medically cleared by their
primary care physician where applicable;

7. Balancing the needs of patient care with the risk of providing
that care by prioritizing procedures for patients who have
lower co-morbidities and surgical risks and procedures
accompanied by lower risk with regard to airborne
transmission and those with minimal risk of unintended
hospital admissions;

8. Performing regular rapid COVID-19 testing on providers and
Workers where feasible; and

g. Performing COVID-19 testing on patients suspected to be
experiencing COVID-19 and factoring the results of such
testing into clinical decisions as to whether or not to proceed
with procedures.

IT IS FURTHER

Any previous executive order or departmental rule which would
prevent ambulatory surgical centers from providing the full scope of
their services subject to the above requirements is hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That during the Public Health State of Emergency, in addition to
those Workers designated as auxiliary emergency management
workers by Executive Orders 04.14.20.01 and 4.20.20.01, the
Workers of healthcare facilities as defined by 31-6-2(17) and 31-44-
1(6), where services are provided or performed during the Public
Health State of Emergency, specifically including those Workers
defined by Code Section 31-44-1(4), shall be considered auxiliary
emergency management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That during the Public Health State of Emergency, in addition to
those persons designated as auxiliary emergency management

Page 20 of go

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

workers by Executive Orders 04.14.20.01 and 04.20.20.01 and by the
immediately preceding paragraph, persons who are licensed,
certified or otherwise authorized under Code Section 31-44-1(4) and
those under Title 43, Chapter 26 and Chapter 34 to provide
healthcare services in the ordinary course of business or practice of
a profession or in an approved education or training program, whose
practices are affected by the Public Health Emergency caused by the
spread of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, shall be considered
auxiliary emergency management workers pursuant to Code Section
38-3-35. However, in no case shall Workers providing or performing
services in or in conjunction with healthcare facilities as defined by
Code Section 31-7-1(4)(B) be considered auxiliary emergency
management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That during the Public Health State of Emergency, services provided
or performed by healthcare facilities as defined by Code Section 31-
6-2(17) or 31-44-1(6) shall be considered emergency management
activities pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35. In no case shall services
provided or performed by healthcare facilities as defined by Code
Section 31-7-1(4)(B) be considered emergency management
activities pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

Ir IS FURTHER
That to the extent possible, hospitals, health care institutions,

medical facilities, nursing homes, and other long-term care facilities
should offer in-room dining.

VIL. EDUCATION & CHILDREN

ITIS FURTHER

Nothing in this Order shall prevent any school, technical school,
college, or university from requiring faculty and staff to attend
meetings or other necessary activities at a school or facility for the
purpose of supporting distance learning, research, administration,
maintenance, or preparation for the 2020-2021 school year.

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of all Child Care Learning Centers and Family
Child Learning Homes under the jurisdiction of the Georgia
Department of Early Care and Learning (hereinafter, “Childcare

Page 21 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Facilities”), the term “Single Location” shall mean a single
classroom. Further, for Childcare Facilities only, twenty (20) persons
shall be permitted to Gather in a Single Location so long as Staff-
Child Ratios set forth by the Georgia Department of Early Care and
Learning are also maintained.

IT IS FURTHER

That all Childcare Facilities shall cease transporting children for any
purpose other than transporting children between their place of
residence and the Childcare Facility. To the greatest extent possible,
all permissible transports shall be conducted in such a way that
maintains Social Distancing.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the requirements for businesses, establishments,
corporations, non-profit corporations, or organizations that are not
Critical Infrastructure set forth in Section V above and the standard
hygiene, sanitation, and disinfection licensing rules promulgated by
the Georgia Department of Early Care and Learning, all Childcare
Facilities that operate during the effective dates of this Order shall
implement additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Such measures shall include the following:

1. Screening and evaluating all children prior to them entering
the classroom for signs of illness or exhibiting a fever over
100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, shortness of breath or
difficulty breathing, fever, chills, muscle pain, sore throat, or
new loss of taste or smell;

2. Prohibiting children from entering a classroom if they exhibit

any of the symptoms in paragraph 1;

Prohibiting unnecessary visitors;

Providing meals in classrooms rather than in a congregated or

communal settings where possible;

5. Restricting families’ access to the front door of the facility or
the door of their respective child’s classroom only;

6. Surfaces and objects that are frequently touched must be
sanitized regularly, including, but not limited to, toys, games,
and objects or surfaces not ordinarily cleaned daily;

7. Toys and games that cannot be cleaned and sanitized should
not be used;

8. Toys that children have placed in their mouths or that are
otherwise contaminated by body secretions or excretions
should be set aside until they are cleaned by hand by a person
wearing gloves;

BS

Page 22 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

9. Machine-washable cloth toys should be used by one
individual at a time or should not be used at all and should be
laundered before being used by another child;

10. Toys used by a group of children must be washed and
sanitized before they may be used by children in a different
group or classroom;

11. Items that need to be cleaned should be set aside in a dish pan
with soapy water or in a separate container marked for soiled
toys;

12. Only bedding (sheets, pillows, blankets, and sleeping bags)
that can be washed may be used. Each child’s bedding must
be kept separate and, to the extent practicable, should be
stored in individually labeled bins, cubbies, or bags. Cots and
mats should be labeled for each child and any bedding that
touches a child’s skin should be cleaned weekly or before use
by any other child; and

13. Workers should sign children in and out of the facility for
families if a computer or keypad system inside the facility is
used, If a tablet located outside the facility is used by families
during drop-off and pick-up, the tablet must be disinfected
after each use. If a paper sign-in system is used for sign-in,
writing utensils should be sanitized after each use, if families
are permitted to sign children in themselves.

IT IS FURTHER

If the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issues guidance for
the operation of Summer Camps, the provisions of such guidance
shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That no Summer Camps are permitted to host Campers overnight
until authorized by the Georgia Department of Public Health.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements for non-critical
infrastructure above, Summer Camps shall implement additional
measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Placing signage at any entrance to instruct Campers that they
cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19,
have exhibited symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a
person that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the
past fourteen (14) days;

Page 23 of 30

10.

il.
12.

13.
14.

15.

Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct Campers of the enhanced sanitation procedures,
Social Distancing requirements, and other instructions and
limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

Screening Campers at drop-off and preventing any Camper
from entering that exhibits a temperature greater than 100.4
degrees Fahrenheit, cough, shortness of breath, difficulty
breathing, other respiratory symptoms, or at least two of the
following symptoms: chills, repeated shaking with chills,
muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or new loss of taste or
smell;

Requiring that any persons exhibiting a temperature greater
than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, shortness of breath or
difficulty breathing, fever, chills, muscle pain, sore throat, or
new loss of taste or smell at any time while at the Summer
Camp shall be separated from the group immediately and
must leave the camp facility as soon as practicable;

Requiring any Worker or Camper that has stayed home sick,
been prevented from entering camp due to signs of illness, or
been sent home during camp due to signs of illness shall to not
be permitted to attend camp again until they have either had
a negative COVID-19 test or have been fever and fever
mediation free for seventy-two (72) hours, other symptoms
have improved, and at least ten (10) days have passed since
symptoms first appeared;

Requiring parents dropping-off and picking-up Campers to
remain in their vehicles;

Utilizing contactless forms of Camper check-in and check-out;
Implementing staggered drop-off and pick-up times, with
specific times for each group of Campers, if practicable;

. Providing hand sanitizer to Campers as soon as practicable

upon drop-off;

Prohibiting unnecessary visitors to camp activities and
facilities;

Discontinuing camp tours;

Providing training to Workers on how to identify symptoms
of illness in Campers, the proper processes for removing a
potentially ill Camper, and the infection mitigation
procedures to perform in such an event;

Providing an isolation area for sick Workers or Campers;

To the extent necessary, limiting groups to twenty (20)
persons or less, including Workers and Campers, in a space
where all persons gathered cannot maintain at least six (6)
feet of distance between themselves and any other person;

To the extent possible, keeping the same Workers and
Campers in the same group for the duration of the camp;

Page 24 of 30

16. Enforcing Social Distancing between groups, prohibiting
Gatherings, and prohibiting congregating among Campers
belonging to different groups;

17. Providing a separate designated space for each Camper to
store personal belongings throughout the duration of the
camp;

18. Prohibiting use of camp facilities and equipment that are not
able to be regularly sanitized;

19. To the extent possible, allowing only one group to use camp
equipment at a time;

20.Sanitizing camp equipment after each group use;

21. Requiring Workers to patrol camp areas to enforce the
equipment sanitization policy and conduct additional
cleanings during times when equipment is not being used;

22.If swimming facilities are available, allowing each group to
swim only once per day and staggering swimming times to
avoid crowding at the swimming facilities;

23.If camp facilities are also open to other patrons, prohibiting
contact between Campers and the facility’s other patrons and
requiring sanitization before and after camp use of any such
shared facilities;

24. Providing hand sanitizer stations for Campers and requiring
regular use;

25. Requiring Campers to wash or sanitize their hands during
each group restroom break, snack break, and meal break;

26. For day camps, if possible, requiring Campers to bring their
own lunch and snacks with them to camp each day, with all
such food items being in a sealed lunch bag marked with the
Camper’s name;

27.Requiring all dining facilities to follow the criteria for
restaurant dine-in services set forth in Section IV herein to the
extent practicable;

28.Requiring Workers to wear gloves when helping Campers
open items from meals and snacks;

29.If camp vehicles are used for transporting Campers to and
from on or off-site activities, requiring Workers to sanitize
each vehicle before and after use;

30.Requiring Workers to clean and sanitize bathrooms and all
frequently touched surfaces regularly throughout the opening
hours in addition to the regular cleaning schedule. Shared
restrooms must be sanitized no less than twice per day;

31. Providing masks or other Personal Protective Equipment to
Workers as available and appropriate to the function and
location of Workers within the camp facility; and

32. Providing masks or other Personal Protective Equipment to
Campers as available and appropriate to the activity and
location of Campers within the camp facility; and

Page 25 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

33. Overnight Summer Camps shall implement the following
additional measures:

a. Screening Workers and Campers each morning and
evening. Persons exhibiting a temperature greater than
100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, cough, , shortness of breath
or difficulty breathing, fever, chills, muscle pain, sore
throat, or new loss of taste or smell shall be separated
from the group immediately and must leave the camp
facility as soon as practicable;

b. Requiring Workers to clean and sanitize overnight
bunk rooms at least once per day;

ce. Sanitizing bunks and bunk mattresses at least once per
week and before and after use by a new Worker or
Camper;

d. Limiting camp occupancy to the extent necessary to
maintain overnight bunk room occupancy at twenty
(20) persons, including Workers and Campers, or less
per room;

e. To the extent possible, arranging beds and bunk beds
in overnight bunk rooms so that beds are six (6) feet
apart and in a foot-to-foot style; and

f. Requiring a Registered Nurse or Licensed Practical
Nurse to be on site during all times that Campers are
present at the camp facility to the extent practicable.

IT IS FURTHER

That Code Section 15-11-2(10) relating to the definition of “child” is
suspended for the limited purpose of ensuring that persons in the
care of the Georgia Division of Family & Children Services who age
out of the definition of “child” during the Public Health State of
Emergency shall be eligible to remain in their placement and
continue to receive services for a duration of ninety (90) days
following the termination of the Public Health State of Emergency or
any extension thereof. This suspension shall apply to Code Section
15-11-2(10), effective until July 1, 2020, and upon expiration to Code
Section 15-11-2(10), effective July 1, 2020. That any Georgia Division
of Family & Children Services policies shall also align with this
provision.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any custodial arrangements created pursuant to the laws or
constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the United
States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a defense
to an action in violation of a custodial arrangement by any court

Page 26 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

created pursuant to the laws or constitution of this State or the laws
or constitution of the United States.

VILL. GOVERNMENTS

It IS FURTHER

That the Human Resources Administration of the Department of
Administrative Services shall promulgate guidance for the reopening
of state offices and the return of teleworking state employees to in-
office environments.

It IS FURTHER

That the requirements of Code Section 36-70-27 and 50-8-8 are
hereby suspended to the extent that they would prevent local
governments from being eligible to receive state funding for
expenditures made during the current Public Health State of
Emergency related to the prevention, treatment, or mitigation of
COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That the audit reporting deadline imposed upon local governments
by Code Section 36-81-7(d) is hereby extended by ninety (90) days
for any local government that by virtue of their fiscal year end date
will have an audit due at any time during the Public Health State of
Emergency or within ninety (90) days after the Public Health State
of Emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That the deadline for submission of the local government finances
reports and local government indebtedness reports required of local
governments under Code Section 36-81-8 shall hereby be extended
by ninety (90) days for any local government that by virtue of their
fiscal year end date will have such reports due during the Public
Health State of Emergency or within ninety (90) days after the Public
Health State of Emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by
the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER
That the grant certification form reporting deadlines imposed upon

local governments by Code Section 36-81-8.1 are hereby extended by
ninety (90) days for any local government that by virtue of their fiscal

Page 27 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

year end date will have a grant certification form due at any time
during the Public Health State of Emergency or within ninety (90)
days after the Public Health State of Emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That county and municipal governments are authorized and
empowered to make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and
regulations as may be necessary for emergency management
purposes and to supplement the carrying out of this Order, but such
orders, rules, and regulations shall not be inconsistent with this
Order or any other orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the
Governor or by any state agency exercising a power derived from the
Public Health State of Emergency declaration. For the purpose of this
provision, orders, rules, and regulations that are promulgated by
county and municipal governments that are more or less restrictive
than the terms of this Order shail be considered inconsistent with
this Order.

ITIS FURTHER

That the operation of Critical Infrastructure shall not be impeded by
county, municipal, or local ordinance.

IX. ENFORCEMENT

It IS FURTHER

That the state agencies with primary regulatory authority over the
entities listed in this Order and the Commissioner of the Department
of Public Safety shall provide resources as requested to assist in the
enforcement of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, any person who violates this
Order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Officials enforcing this Order
should take reasonable steps to provide notice prior to issuing a
citation or making an arrest. No provision of this Order shall limit
the ability of law enforcement officers to enforce the laws of this
State. Particularly, the provisions of Code Section 38-3-4 remain in
effect, and all law enforcement is authorized to enforce the Orders
issued pursuant to Title 38, Chapter 3.

IT IS FURTHER

Page 28 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

That any law enforcement officer, after providing reasonable notice
and issuing at least two citations for violations of Code Section 38-3-
7, is authorized to mandate the closure of any business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation, or organization
not in compliance with this Order for a period not to extend beyond
the term of this Order.

Ir IS FURTHER
That pursuant to Executive Order 04.02.20.01 and Code Section 38-

3-51, enforcement of any county or municipal ordinance or order that
is more or less restrictive than this Order is hereby suspended.

X. MISCELLANEOUS

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any
Quarantine or Isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Department of Public Health shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER
That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or

supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the

Page 29 of 30

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States,

IT IS FURTHER

This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that
the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the

scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders,

XI, EFFECTIVE DATE & SIGNATURE

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

This 12th day of May 2020, at S 62 amp

Bill.

" GOVERNOR

Page 30 of 30
