THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

REGARDING OPERATIONS OF OVERNIGHT SUMMER CAMPS

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

The Georgia General Assembly concurred with Executive Order
03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16, 2020; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

On April 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until June 12, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.30.20.01; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vests the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said
individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

In consultation with health and emergency preparedness officials, I
have determined that the following actions are necessary and

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

appropriate to protect the strength of Georgia’s economy and provide
for the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA
LAW, CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME
AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the following definitions shall apply to this Order:

1. “Camper” shall mean any person that attends a Summer
Camp as a participant. This provision shall specifically
exclude those persons who volunteer or work at Summer
Camps.

2. “Overnight Summer Camp” shall mean a Summer Camp
where Campers stay overnight on the Summer Camp
premises. This term shall not include those entities
commonly referred to as “day camps.”

3. “Summer Camp” shall mean any entity offering organized
sessions of supervised recreational, athletic, or instructional
activities held between typical school terms.

4. “Worker” shall include employees, independent contractors,
agents, volunteers, or other representatives of a business,
establishment, corporation, non-profit corporation,
organization, or other entity.

IT IS FURTHER

That if the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issues
guidance for the operation of Summer Camps, the provisions of such
guidance shall only control if adopted by Executive Order or by
guidance from the Georgia Department of Public Health.

IT IS FURTHER

That Overnight Summer Camps are permitted to host Campers
overnight beginning May 31, 2020.

IT IS FURTHER

That all the requirements provided for Summer Camps in Executive
Order 05.12.20.02 shall apply to Overnight Summer Camps.

IT IS FURTHER
That Campers and Workers at Overnight Summer Camps shall be

tested for COVID-19 prior to beginning an Overnight Summer Camp.
Overnight Campers and Workers shall not be permitted to begin any

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Summer Camp unless they have received a negative test result for

COVID-19 within seven (7) days prior to beginning an Overnight

Summer Camp. A Camper or Worker who receives a positive test

result for COVID-19 shall not be allowed access to any Overnight

Summer Camp facilities or Overnight Summer Camp activities until

either:

e the Camper or Worker has had no fever for at least seventy-two
(72) hours, without taking fever-reducing medication, and

e the Camper’s or Worker’s other symptoms have shown
progressive improvement, and

e atleast ten (10) days have elapsed from the date symptoms began,

or

e fora Camper or Worker who has received a laboratory-confirmed
positive test result, but who has experienced no symptoms of
COVID-19, until at least ten (10) days have elapsed since the date
of the first positive diagnostic test.

IT 1S FURTHER

That a Camper or Worker with known exposure to COVID-19 shall
not be allowed access to any Overnight Summer Camp, including any
facilities or activities, until at least fourteen (14) days have elapsed
since the last known exposure.

IT IS FURTHER

That all Campers and Workers who stay overnight at an Overnight
Summer Camp must remain on the Summer Camp premises at all
times, except in case of emergency or for purposes of participating in
an off-site activity that is part of the Overnight Summer Camp’s
program. Any Camper or Worker who leaves the premises of an
Overnight Summer Camp for any reason shall be required to receive
an additional negative test result for COVID-19 prior to re-entry.
This provision shall not apply to Workers at Summer Camps who do
not stay overnight, provided that such Workers wear a face covering
and practice strict Social Distancing while on the premises of the
Overnight Summer Camp.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Quarantine or Isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Department of Public Health shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

eth

GOVERNOR

This 215t day of May 2020.
