THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:
WHEREAS:
WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY
FOR SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTIONS

The global supply chain, including within the State of Georgia, has
been detrimentally impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic; and

Despite the state’s successful mitigation of the public health impacts
of COVID-19, Georgia’s supply chain has yet to fully recover and is
still experiencing severe disruptions; and

Supply chain disruptions negatively impact Georgia’s economy and
the social and economic wellbeing of its residents; and

The State is experiencing an ongoing emergency due to supply chain
disruptions; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor” have the force and effect
of law; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with protecting the
citizens of this State, including during a state of emergency; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
enforce all laws, rules, and regulations relating to emergency
management and to assume direct operational control of all civil
forces and helpers in the state; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

I have determined a state of emergency exists as provided by Code
Section 38-3-51, and that the following actions are necessary and
appropriate to protect the continued strength of Georgia’s economy
and provide for the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents
and visitors; and

Continued action by the State of Georgia is necessary to ensure the
complete restoration of social and economic welfare of the State by
responding to the ongoing effects of COVID-19 on the State; and

As specified above, Georgia law vests the Governor in Code Section
38-3-51 with the authority to bring emergency situations under
control by issuing orders, rules, and regulations to protect the safety
and welfare of the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in the State of Georgia due to
ongoing severe disruptions to the State’s supply chain and economy.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia shall be made available to
assist in activities designed to address this emergency and aid
recovery and response efforts.

IT IS FURTHER

That all state and local authorities, as well as public and private
entities, shall fully comply with all orders by the Governor as
authorized by Georgia law, in furtherance of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

Pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to goods
and services necessary to prepare for and respond to this State of
Emergency, including motor fuel and diesel fuel, would be
detrimental to the social and economic welfare of the citizens of this
State and is therefore prohibited.

Page 2 of 5

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the supply
chain for all supplies, goods, and services throughout Georgia is
uninterrupted. This declared emergency justifies a suspension of
Part 395 (driver’s hours of service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal
Regulations. The suspension will remain in effect for thirty (30) days
or until the emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is less.
Nothing herein will be construed as an exemption from the
Commercial Driver’s License requirements in 49 C.F.R. 383 and the
financial requirements in 49 C.F.R. 387.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this State of
Emergency will require or allow an ill or fatigued driver to operate a
motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he
or she needs immediate rest will be given at least ten (10) consecutive
hours off-duty before being required to return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any such vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief
related to this State of Emergency for Supply Chain Disruptions,
which traverses roadways maintained by the State of Georgia,
excluding interstates, shall not exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (40) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

Page 3 of 5

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Executive Order does not suspend operation of any state or
federal law or regulation, except as specifically described herein, nor
do the waiver of rules and regulations in this Order affect or amend
similar rule and regulation waivers for motor carriers or commercial
vehicles.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 40-5-21.1, that limits the time period
for which a noncitizen who holds a Georgia driver’s license or
identification card may be issued a temporary driving permit or
identification card to 120 days from the date of expiration of his or
her valid driver’s license or identification card is hereby suspended
to the extent necessary to allow noncitizen holders of a Georgia
driver’s license or identification card, whose driver’s license or
identification card expired on or after March 14, 2020, who have
already been issued the 120 day temporary driving permit or
identification card permitted under Code Section 40-5-21.1, and have
filed, or on whose behalf has been filed, a request for an extension
with the United States Department of Homeland Security, or similar
such federal issuing agency, for time to remain lawfully within the
United States and said request is still pending, to apply to the Georgia
Department of Driver Services for one or more additional 120 day
temporary driving permits or identification cards. Any such
temporary driving permit or identification card shall be issued in
accordance with existing procedures established by the Georgia

Page 4 of 5

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Department of Driver Services and in the sole discretion of the
Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Driver Services. The
Georgia Department of Driver Services shall be authorized to issue
additional guidelines and procedures for the application and
issuance of said temporary driving permits and identification cards
as needed. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or
otherwise alter any existing identity or lawful status verification
requirements established by the Georgia Department of Driver
Services to comply with federal REAL ID requirements.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not effect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective on Saturday, April
16, 2022, at 12:00 A.M., and shall be valid for a period of thirty (30)
days, expiring Sunday, May 15, 2022, at 11:59 P.M. unless this State
of Emergency is renewed by the Governor.

This 14t day of April 2022.

Bll

GOVERNOR

Page 5 of 5
