EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ESTABLISHING THE
HEALTHCARE WORKFORCE COMMISSION

The State of Georgia is experiencing significant challenges in the hiring and
retention of healthcare workers, including, but not limited to, nurses,
physicians, respiratory therapists, emergency medical personnel, and other
clinical and nonclinical personnel; and

These challenges were exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic; and

The shortage of healthcare workers has had a negative impact on Georgia’s
healthcare infrastructure and the ability of Georgia residents to access
healthcare services; and

To ensure the future health of Georgians and Georgia’s healthcare system,
it is imperative for state government and industry leaders to examine the
current state of our healthcare workforce and identify strategies and
recommendations for promoting increased workforce availability, hiring,
and retention.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the Healthcare Workforce Commission is hereby established.
IT IS FURTHER

That the Healthcare Workforce Commission shall conduct a thorough study
of the state’s current healthcare workforce pipeline, including, but not
limited to, identifying significant data trends in healthcare workforce
changes and areas of concern within the existing pipeline, and shall make
recommendations for improvements to said pipeline, including, but not
limited to, recommendations regarding the expansion of education

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

programs and clinical placements, methods to further develop and
strengthen the pipeline, scholarship and loan forgiveness programs that
may support workforce initiatives, investments in technology to improve
workforce readiness and expand educational program capacity, and
programs and strategies to improve retention and resilience of the current
healthcare workforce.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Healthcare Workforce Commission shall make a report of its
findings and recommendations to the Governor no later than December 31,
2022.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Healthcare Workforce Commission shall be composed of fifteen
(15) members to be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Governor,
consisting of the following:

a. The Commissioner of the Department of Community
Health, or his or her designee, who shall be the
chairperson;

Two representatives from the field of practicing medicine;

Two representatives from the field of nursing;

. Two representatives from the field of emergency medical
response;

. Two representatives from the field of mental healthcare;

Two representatives from the hospital industry, one of

whom being a hospital administrator;

aos

ho

g. Arepresentative from the long-term care industry; and
h. Three representatives from the field of healthcare
education.
IT IS FURTHER

That the Healthcare Workforce Commission shall collaborate with the
Georgia Board of Healthcare Workforce and the Office of Health Strategy
and Coordination in making its findings and recommendations.

IT IS FURTHER
That the Department of Community Health shall be authorized to use any

funds within its authority as needed to support the completion of the
Healthcare Workforce Commission’s duties as set forth herein.

Page 2 of 3

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That members of the Healthcare Workforce Commission shall receive no
compensation for their services, except that any members who are state
officers or employees may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties by the agency or department in which they serve
as an officer or employee.

It IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be held
to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in violation of Georgia
law, or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, violation, or
unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in
such case, this Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature and remain in effect until

December 31, 2022.
®
a

GOVERNOR

This 215t day of April 2022.

Page 3 of 3
