THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RENEWAL OF STATE OF EMERGENCY
FOR SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTIONS

On April 14, 2022, due to the ongoing severe disruptions to Georgia’s
supply chain, I issued Executive Order 04.14.22.01, declaring a State
of Emergency for Supply Chain Disruptions; and

On May 10, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply Chain
Disruptions until June 14, 2022, by issuing Executive Order
05.10.22.01; and

On May 26, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply Chain
Disruptions until July 14, 2022, by issuing Executive Order
05.26.22.01; and

On July 1, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply Chain
Disruptions until August 13, 2022, by issuing Executive Order
07.01.22.01; and

On August 3, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply
Chain Disruptions until September 12, 2022, by issuing Executive
Order 08.03.22.01; and

On September 1, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply
Chain Disruptions until October 12, 2022, by issuing Executive
Order 09.01.22.01; and

On October 3, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply
Chain Disruptions until November 11, 2022, by issuing Executive
Order 10.03.22.01; and

On November 4, 2022, I renewed the State of Emergency for Supply
Chain Disruptions until December 11, 2022, by issuing Executive
Order 11.04.22.01; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

On November 1, 2022, Wellstar Atlanta Medical Center (““WAMC”),
a designated Level 1 trauma center within the City of Atlanta,
permanently closed; and

WAMC was licensed for 460 beds and in 2021 served over 100,000
patients through its emergency department; and

The closure of WAMC caused a negative impact to the healthcare
supply chain in the areas of the State formerly served by WAMC,
resulting in increased demand on the remaining healthcare
infrastructure in such areas; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the power to renew any
State of Emergency for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days; and

Continued action by the State of Georgia is necessary to ensure the
restoration of Georgia’s social and economic welfare by responding
to the ongoing effects of the current supply chain disruptions on the
State; and

In consultation with state economic, transportation, health, and
emergency preparedness officials, I have determined the state of
emergency created by continued supply chain disruptions persists in
the State of Georgia, and that it is necessary and appropriate to renew
the State of Emergency for Supply Chain Disruptions for thirty (30)
days.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the State of Emergency for Supply Chain Disruptions declared
by Executive Order 04.14.22.01 and renewed by Executive Orders
05.10.22.01, 05.26.22.01, 07.01.22.01, 08.03.22.01, 09.01.22.01,
10.03.22.01, and 11.04.22.01, which is set to expire on Sunday,
December 11, 2022, at 11:59 P.M., shall be renewed for thirty (30)
days.

IT IS FURTHER
That the State of Emergency for Supply Chain Disruptions shall

terminate on Tuesday, January 10, 2023, at 11:59 P.M., unless it is
renewed by the Governor.

Page 2 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia shall be made available to
assist in activities designed to address this emergency and aid
recovery and response efforts.

IT IS FURTHER

That all state and local authorities, as well as public and private
entities, shall fully comply with all orders by the Governor as
authorized. by Georgia law, in furtherance of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

Pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to goods
and services necessary to prepare for and respond to this State of
Emergency, including motor fuel and diesel fuel, would be
detrimental to the social and economic welfare of the citizens of this
State and is therefore prohibited.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any such vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief
related to this State of Emergency for Supply Chain Disruptions,
which traverses roadways maintained by the State of Georgia,
excluding interstates, shall not exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined.
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

Page 3 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Executive Order does not suspend operation of any state or
federal law or regulation, except as specifically described herein, nor
do the waiver of rules and regulations in this Order affect or amend
similar rule and regulation waivers for motor carriers or commercial
vehicles.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 40-5-21.1, that limits the time period
for which a noncitizen who holds a Georgia driver’s license or
identification card may be issued a temporary driving permit or
identification card to 120 days from the date of expiration of his or
her valid driver’s license or identification card is hereby suspended
to the extent necessary to allow noncitizen holders of a Georgia
driver’s license or identification card, whose driver’s license or
identification card expired on or after March 14, 2020, who have
already been issued the 120 day temporary driving permit or
identification card permitted under Code Section 40-5-21.1, and have
filed, or on whose behalf has been filed, a request for an extension
with the United States Department of Homeland Security, or similar
such federal issuing agency, for time to remain lawfully within the
United States and said request is still pending, to apply to the Georgia
Department of Driver Services for one or more additional 120 day
temporary driving permits or identification cards. Any such

Page 4 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

temporary driving permit or identification card shall be issued in
accordance with existing procedures established by the Georgia
Department of Driver Services and in the sole discretion of the
Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Driver Services. The
Georgia Department of Driver Services shall be authorized to issue
additional guidelines and procedures for the application and
issuance of said temporary driving permits and identification cards
as needed. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or
otherwise alter any existing identity or lawful status verification
requirements established by the Georgia Department of Driver
Services to comply with federal REAL ID requirements.

IT IS FURTHER

That in compliance with Ga. Comp. R. & Reg. r. 111-2-2-.07(4)(k),
hospitals within a five-mile radius of the main address of the former
WAMC, 303 Parkway Drive Northeast, Atlanta, Georgia 30312,
(hereinafter “WAMC Adjacent Hospitals”) may seek emergency
approval from the Department of Community Health (“DCH”),
Office of Health Planning to make expenditures in excess of the
capital expenditure threshold or to offer services that may otherwise
require a Certificate of Need pursuant to Code Section 31-6-40, for
the purpose of serving increased patient populations as a result of the
WAMC closure.

IT IS FURTHER

That DCH is authorized and directed to implement the suspension of
Code Section 31-2-7 where suspension would reduce the
administrative burden on WAMC Adjacent Hospitals in responding
to the healthcare supply chain disruptions caused by the WAMC
closure.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Commissioner of DCH or his/her designees are authorized
and directed to implement waivers of those rules and regulations
necessary to prohibit the prevention, hindrance, or delay of
necessary action to assist or aid in coping with this State of
Emergency.

IT IS FURTHER
That DCH is authorized and directed to require reports from any

WAMC Adjacent Hospital that utilizes the provisions of this Order
confirming actions taken to assist, aid, or cope with the response to

Page 5 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

this State of Emergency, with a final reporting to be provided upon
the expiration of this State of Emergency.

IT IS FURTHER

That authorizations and waivers issued by DCH in accordance with
the authority provided in this Order shall remain valid and in force
for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days from the expiration of this
State of Emergency.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

IT IS FURTHER

That all provisions of this Order shall become effective upon
signature.

This 8th day of December 2022.

Bl h-

GOVERNOR

Page 6 of 6
