THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR
WINTER WEATHER

The National Weather Service issued a Winter Storm Watch for
North Georgia beginning late Friday, January 23, 2026, through
Monday, January 26, 2026; and

This Winter Storm Watch may be upgraded to either a Winter Storm
Warning or a Winter Weather Advisory later this evening or
tomorrow, and the impacted area may extend to parts of Central
Georgia, including the Metro Atlanta area; and

This major winter storm is forecasted to result in significant
accumulations of snow, ice, freezing rain, and sleet; and

Projected wind gusts of up to 30 miles per hour will exacerbate any
potential damage to public and private property; and

Due to the possibility of snow and ice accumulation, fallen trees, and
downed power lines, Georgia’s roadways will likely become
hazardous or impassible, hindering access to essential public
services; and

Assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to provide for the
public’s safety, protect public and private property, and restore the
social and economic welfare of the State; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

The Governor, as Chief Executive, is tasked with declaring a state of
emergency “[i]n the event of [an] actual or impending emergency or
disaster of natural or human origin . . . within or affecting this
[S]tate” under Code Section 38-3-51(a); and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations, 49 C.F.R. 88 390, et
seq., limit the hours that operators of commercial motor vehicles
may drive; and

49 C.F.R. § 390.23 allows the Governor of a State to suspend these
regulations for commercial vehicles responding to an emergency for
fourteen (14) days or until the emergency condition ceases to exist,
whichever is less, if the Governor determines that an emergency
condition exists; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the authority to bring
emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and
regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor” have the full force and
effect of law; and

In consultation with state emergency preparedness officials, I have
determined that the following actions are necessary and appropriate
to protect the continued strength of Georgia’s economy and provide
for the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTIONS 38-3-28 AND
38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in the State of Georgia due to the
projected impact of this major winter storm.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
State, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency Operations
Plan and the Georgia State Operations Center.

IT IS FURTHER
That state agencies shall coordinate all public and emergency
information, activities, releases, and response efforts related to this

emergency with the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency.

Page 2 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Transportation and Georgia
Department of Public Safety shall take all necessary action to ensure
the expeditious movement of utility vehicles, equipment, and
personnel through the State to eliminate power outages.

IT IS FURTHER

That state agencies shall provide sufficient personnel required for the
staffing of the Georgia State Operations Center or other command,
control, and coordination points as may be designated by the
Director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency and shall provide such personnel, vehicles,
equipment, and other resources needed to protect life and property
and to ensure continuation, restoration, and recovery of essential
public services.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Defense provide up to five hundred
(500) Georgia National Guard troops to be used in preparation,
response, and recovery efforts for this winter storm.

IT IS FURTHER

That said Georgia National Guard troops be called up to State Active
Duty as necessary by the Adjutant General.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the
State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief related to this
State of Emergency, which traverses roadways maintained by the
State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five thousand (95,000) pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes

Page 3 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the above-mentioned
weight, height, and length restrictions for the purposes of providing
relief related to this State of Emergency shall be issued permits by
the Georgia Department of Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be
subject to any special conditions the Georgia Department of Public
Safety may list on applicable permits. Nothing in this Executive
Order shall be construed to allow any vehicle to exceed weight limits
posted for bridges and like structures, nor shall anything in this
Executive Order be construed to relieve compliance with restrictions
other than those specified in this Order or from any statute, rule,
order, or other legal requirement not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Division, during normal
business hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or
through the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System
online portal at https://www.gaprospermits.com/.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations limiting the hours
that operators of commercial vehicles may drive, 49 C.F.R. §§ 390, et
seq., are suspended to ensure the uninterrupted supply of goods and
services necessary to respond to this State of Emergency, including
petroleum products, for fourteen (14) days or until the emergency
condition ceases to exist, whichever is less, pursuant to 49 C.F.R. 8
390.23. Nothing herein shall be construed as an exemption from the
commercial driver’s license requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 383 or the
financial requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 387 or to require or allow an ill
or fatigued driver to operate a commercial motor vehicle. A driver
who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he or she needs immediate
rest shall be given at least ten (10) consecutive hours of off duty
before being required to return to service, pursuant to 49 C.F.R. 8

390.23.

Page 4 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

Pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to goods
and services necessary for preparation, response, and recovery
activities for this State of Emergency for Winter Weather, including,
but not limited to, petroleum products, propane, and heating fuels,
would be detrimental to the social and economic welfare of the
citizens of this State and it therefore prohibited.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions in this Order shall be held to be
invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in violation of
Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity,
violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of
this Order, and, in such case, this Order shall be construed as if such
invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had never been contained
within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision in this Order
as a defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order does not suspend operation of any state or federal
law or regulation, except as specifically described herein.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.
IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall be valid for a period of seven (7) days, expiring Thursday,

January 29, 2026, at 11:59 P.M. unless this State of Emergency is
renewed by the Governor.

Page 5 of 6

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

This 224 day of January 2026.

Bt he

GOVERNOR

Page 6 of 6
