THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR
SPALDING COUNTY WATER SUPPLY

On January 30, 2026, a significant release of fuel occurred at or near
the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, resulting in the
discharge of petroleum contaminants into the Flint River; and

The Flint River serves as the primary source of drinking water for the
residents of Spalding County; and

Due to the potential contamination from the discharge, there is a
potential shortage of safe drinking water in Spalding County; and

The potential contamination of Spalding County’s water supply
requires urgent action to prevent illness, ensure access to safe water,
and mitigate further environmental damage; and

The threat of severe winter weather may complicate the delivery of
safe drinking water and require additional state resources to ensure
availability; and

Assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to provide for the
public's health and safety; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the authority to bring
emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and
regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that "[aJll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor" have the force and effect
of law; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations, 49 C.F.R. § 395, et
seq., limit the hours of operators of commercial motor vehicles may
drive; and

49 C.F.R. 390.23 allows the Governor of a State to suspend these
rules and regulations for up to fourteen (14) days if the Governor
determines that an emergency condition exists; and

On January 30, 2026, I declared a State of Emergency for Winter
Weather in the State of Georgia until February 6, 2026, by issuing
Executive Order 01.30.26.01; and

This Order shall create a coexisting state of emergency in the State of
Georgia with the State of Emergency for Winter Weather taking place
in the State of Georgia described in the immediately preceding
paragraphs; and

The responses by the State to this State of Emergency and the State
of Emergency for Winter Weather taking place in the State of Georgia
should all proceed simultaneously, without one impeding the other;
and

In consultation with state emergency preparedness officials, I have
determined that the following actions are necessary and appropriate
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and
visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTIONS 38-3-28 AND
38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in Spalding County due to the
potential water supply contamination caused by a fuel release in the
Flint River.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the
State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief related to this
State of Emergency, which traverses roadways maintained by the
State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum

Page 2 of 5

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Division, during normal
business hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or
through the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System
online portal at https://www.gaprospermits.com/.

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the
uninterrupted supply of goods and services necessary to respond to
this State of Emergency, including petroleum products. This
declared emergency justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver's hours
of service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
suspension will remain in effect for fourteen (14) days or until the
emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is less. Nothing
herein will be construed as an exemption from the Commercial
Driver's License requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 383 and the financial

Page 3 of 5

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 387 or to require or allow an ill or
fatigued driver to operate a motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a
motor vehicle carrier that he or she needs immediate rest will be
given at least ten (10) consecutive hours off-duty before being
required to return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

To expedite the transportation of safe drinking water into and
throughout the affected areas, all water haulers and tankers may
bypass the Georgia Department of Public Safety, Commercial Vehicle
Enforcement Division, weigh stations and monitoring inspection
stations.

IT IS FURTHER

Pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to goods
and services necessary for preparation, response, and recovery
activities for this State of Emergency, including, but not limited to,
bottled water or supplies for water testing or water purification,
would be detrimental to the social and economic welfare of the
citizens of this State and is therefore prohibited.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State of Emergency declared by this Order shall coexist with
the State of Emergency for Winter Weather declared by Executive
Order 01.30.26.01. The existence or termination of one shall not
impinge the others.

IT IS FURTHER

That any orders derivative of or appurtenant to this Order addressing
this State of Emergency shall not infringe, overturn, or in any way
amend any orders that have been issued for the purpose of
responding to the State of Emergency for Winter Weather declared
by Executive Order 01.30.26.01.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

Page 4 of 5

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order does not suspend operation of any state or federal
law or regulation, except as specifically described herein.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
State, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency Operations
Plan and the Georgia State Operations Center.

IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall be valid for a period of seven (7) days, expiring Thursday,
February 6, 2026, at 11:59 P.M. unless this State of Emergency is
renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

This 30 day of January 2026.
9
& |

GOVERNOR

Page 5 0f 5
