THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

AMENDING THE STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR
GEORGIA WILDFIRES

On April 22, 2026, I issued Executive Order No. 04.22.26.01,
declaring a State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires in 91 counties
in South Georgia that were at high risk for wildfires; and

The State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires adopted and
incorporated an administrative order from the Georgia Forestry
Commission implementing a temporary burn ban in the counties
covered by the declaration; and

On May 5, 2026, I issued Executive Order No. 05.05.26.01, which
lifted the State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires in all counties
except for Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Berrien, Brantley, Camden,
Charlton, Clinch, Coffee, Echols, Glynn, Jeff Davis, Lanier, Lowndes,
Pierce, Ware, and Wayne counties (the “Affected Counties”); and

Weather conditions have continued to improve, further decreasing
the immediate fire risks, and the emergency response has shifted
towards recovery and rebuilding.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTIONS 38-3-28 AND
38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the administrative order from the Georgia Forestry
Commission instituting a temporary burn ban, which was
incorporated into Executive Order No. 04.22.26.01 and Executive
Order No. 05.05.26.01, as if issued therein, is lifted in all counties.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the
State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief related to this
State of Emergency, which traverses roadways maintained by the
State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. If the width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

ITIS FURTHER

That the Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations limiting the hours
that operators of commercial vehicles may drive, 49 C.F.R. 8§ 390, et
seq., are suspended to ensure the uninterrupted supply of goods and
services necessary to respond to this State of Emergency, including
petroleum products, for fourteen (14) days or until the emergency
condition ceases to exist, whichever is less, pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §
390.23. Nothing herein shall be construed as an exemption from the
commercial driver's license requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 383 or the
financial requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 387 or to require or allow an ill
or fatigued driver to operate a commercial motor vehicle. A driver
who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he or she needs immediate
rest shall be given at least ten (10) consecutive hours of off duty
before being required to return to service, pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §

390.23

Page 2 of 3

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT 1S FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 844-837-5500 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://www.gaprospermits.com/.

IT IS FURTHER

That except as modified by this Order and Executive Order No.
05.05.26.01, the provisions of Executive Order No. 04.22.26.01 shall
remain in effect until the State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires
expires or the provisions are otherwise terminated via subsequent
Executive Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That except as modified by this Order and by Executive Order No.
05.05.26.01, the provisions of Executive Order No. 04.22.26.01 shall
remain in effect until the State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires
expires or the provisions are otherwise terminated via subsequent
Executive Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

Bib

" GOVERNOR

This 12% day of May 2026.

Page 3 of 3
