THE STATE OF GEORGIA
                              EXECUTIVE ORDER


BY THE GOVERNOR:


                     DECLARING A STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR
                        GEORGIA WILDFIRE RECOVERY


 WHEREAS:    On April 22, 2026, I issued Executive Order No. 04.22.26.01, declaring a
             State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires in 91 counties in South Georgia
             that were at high risk for wildfires; and

 WHEREAS:    The State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires adopted and incorporated an
             administrative order from the Georgia Forestry Commission implementing
             a temporary burn ban in the counties covered by the declaration; and

 WHEREAS:    On May 5, 2026, I issued Executive Order No. 05.05.26.01, which lifted the
             State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires in all counties except for Appling,
             Atkinson, Bacon, Berrien, Brantley, Camden, Charlton, Clinch, Coffee,
             Echols, Glynn, Jeff Davis, Lanier, Lowndes, Pierce, Ware, and Wayne
             counties; and

 WHEREAS:    On May 12, 2026, I issued Executive Order No. 05.12.26.01, which lifted the
             temporary burn ban in all counties, among other provisions; and

 WHEREAS:    The State of Emergency for Georgia Wildfires expired Friday, May 22, 2026,
             at 11:59 P.M.; and

 WHEREAS:    Additional assistance from the State is necessary to support recovery efforts
             after these unprecedented wildfires and harvest the remaining salvageable
             timber while it is still economically feasible; and

 WHEREAS:    The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as the Chief
             Executive of this State; and

 WHEREAS:    As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with declaring a state of
             emergency “[i]n the event of [an] actual or impending emergency or disaster
             of natural or human origin . . . within or affecting this [S]tate” under Code
             Section 38-3-51(a); and


                                       Page 1 of 4
WHEREAS:        Code Section 38-3-51(c) vests the Governor with the authority to bring
                emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and regulations
                to protect the safety and welfare of the public; and

WHEREAS:        Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and regulations
                promulgated by the Governor” have the force and effect of law; and

WHEREAS:        In consultation with state emergency preparedness officials, I have
                determined that the following actions are necessary and appropriate to
                protect the continued strength of Georgia’s economy and provide for the
                health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

                NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTIONS 38-3-28 AND 38-3-51,
                AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
                GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

ORDERED:        That a State of Emergency exists in the following counties due to the
                extensive damage caused by wildfires and continued recovery efforts:
                Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Berrien, Brantley, Camden, Charlton, Clinch,
                Coffee, Echols, Glynn, Jeff Davis, Lanier, Lowndes, Pierce, Ware, and
                Wayne counties.

                IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:        That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist in
                recovery activities throughout the State.

                IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:        That state agencies shall coordinate all public and emergency information,
                activities, releases, and response efforts related to this emergency with the
                Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency.

                IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:        That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the State
                of Georgia for purposes related to this State of Emergency, which traverses
                roadways maintained by the State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall
                not exceed the following:

           A.   A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with five (5) weight-
                bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not less than fifty-one (51) feet,
                shall not exceed a gross vehicle weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds,
                a maximum width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
                (100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper escorts.



                                          Page 2 of 4
           B.   If the width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches and is
                traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes before sunset to
                thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the transporter is required to have a
                vehicle front and a rear escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane
                roadway and a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
                Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have proper oversize
                signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined in the Georgia Department of
                Transportation Rules and Regulations.

                IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:        That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight, height, and
                length restrictions under the authority of this State of Emergency shall be
                issued permits by the Georgia Department of Public Safety. Said vehicles
                shall be subject to any special conditions the Georgia Department of Public
                Safety may list on applicable permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall
                be construed to allow any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges
                and like structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
                to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in this
                Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement not
                specifically waived herein.

                Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public Safety,
                Commercial Vehicle Enforcement, during normal business hours, Monday
                through Friday by calling 844-837-5500 or through the Georgia Permitting
                and       Routing       Optimization      System      online        portal
                at https://www.gaprospermits.com/.

                IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:        That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be held
                to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in violation of Georgia
                law, or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, violation, or
                unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Order, but, in
                such case, this Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
                unenforceable provision had never been contained within the Order.

                IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:        That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or supplant
                any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to the laws or
                constitution of this State or the laws or Constitution of the United States,
                nor shall any person use any provision of this Order as a defense to an action
                in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or decree by any court created
                pursuant to the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or Constitution
                of the United States.



                                          Page 3 of 4
              IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:      That this Order does not suspend operation of any state or federal law or
              regulation, except as specifically described herein.

              IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:      The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the scope of
              this Order as needed through communication media, including social
              media, without need for further executive orders.

              IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED:      All provisions of the Order shall be effective upon signature and shall be
              valid for a period of thirty (30) days, expiring Sunday, July 12, 2026, at 11:59
              P.M. unless this State of Emergency is renewed by the Governor.
  .

           This 12th day of June 2026.




                                                       __________________________
                                                                GOVERNOR




                                         Page 4 of 4
