THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR
HURRICANE ISAIAS

The National Hurricane Center forecasts Hurricane Isaias will make
landfall near the Alabama and Florida coastline Friday evening as a
near-major hurricane; and

The wind field of Hurricane Isaias is expected to expand before
landfall, with impacts extending well outside the cone of uncertainty
and affecting much of Georgia; and

Rain is expected to move into South Georgia during the day Friday,
with the primary period of impact across the State expected from
Friday evening through Sunday morning; and

Strong, gusty winds are expected Friday night and Saturday, with
gusts of up to 40 to 50 miles per hour in western Georgia, as the
center of Hurricane Isaias moves through Alabama; and

High pressure extending into Georgia from the northeast, combined
with the nearby low-pressure system associated with Hurricane
Isaias, is expected to produce a tight pressure gradient, enhancing
wind impacts across much of North Georgia and producing powerful
gusts across and threats of tornadoes across much of the State,
including areas far from the center of the storm; and

These strong winds and potential tornadoes could cause widespread
downed trees and power lines, power outages, and debris-related
impacts across the State on Saturday; and

Although widespread flooding is not expected due to the rapid
movement of Hurricane Isaias, prolonged heavy rainfall could cause
flash flooding in areas that have recently received several inches of
rain; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On September 28, 2026, due to the petroleum supply disruptions
and the resulting volatile prices for gas and diesel fuel, I declared a
State of Emergency for Petroleum Supply Disruptions by Executive
Order No. 09.28.26.01, which was amended and renewed on October
6, 2026, by Executive Order No. 10.06.26.01; and

This Order shall create a coexisting state of emergency in the State of
Georgia with the State of Emergency for Petroleum Supply
Disruptions described in the immediately preceding paragraph; and

In preparation for the anticipated impact of Hurricane Isais,
assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to provide for the
public’s safety, protect public and private property, and maintain the
social and economic welfare of the State; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with declaring a state of
emergency “[i]n the event of [an] actual or impending emergency or
disaster of natural or human origin . . . within or affecting this
[S]tate” under Code Section 38-3-51(a); and

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations, 49 C.F.R. § 395.1
et seq., limit the hours that operators of commercial motor vehicles
may drive; and

During an emergency declared by the Governor, 49 C.F.R. § 390.23
allows the Governor to suspend these rules and regulations for 14
days or until the emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is
less; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c) vests the Governor with the authority to
bring emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules,
and regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor” have the force and effect
of law; and

In consultation with state emergency preparedness officials, I have
determined that the following actions are necessary and appropriate
to protect the continued strength of Georgia’s economy and provide
for the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and visitors.

Page 2 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTIONS 38-3-28 AND
38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in the State of Georgia due to the
potential negative impact of Hurricane Isaias.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State of Emergency declared by this Order shall coexist with
the State of Emergency for Petroleum Supply Disruptions declared
by Executive Order No. 09.28.26.01 and amended and renewed by
Executive Order No. 10.06.26.01. The existence or termination of
one shall not impinge the others.

IT IS FURTHER

That any orders derivative of or appurtenant to this Order addressing
this State of Emergency shall not infringe, overturn, or in any way
amend any orders that have been issued for the purpose of
responding to the State of Emergency for Petroleum Supply
Disruptions declared by Executive Order No. 09.28.26.01 and
amended and renewed by Executive Order No. 10.06.26.01.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
State, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency Operations
Plan and the Georgia State Operations Center.

IT IS FURTHER

That state agencies shall coordinate all public and emergency
information, activities, releases, and response efforts related to this
emergency with the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency.

IT IS FURTHER
That the Georgia Department of Transportation and Georgia
Department of Public Safety shall take all necessary action to ensure

the expeditious movement of utility vehicles, equipment, and
personnel through the State to eliminate power outages.

Page 3 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That state agencies shall provide sufficient personnel required for the
staffing of the Georgia State Operations Center or other command,
control, and coordination points as may be designated by the
Director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency and shall provide such personnel, vehicles,
equipment, and other resources needed to protect life and property
and to ensure continuation, restoration, and recovery of essential
public services.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Defense provide up to five hundred
(500) Georgia National Guard troops to be used in preparation,
response, and recovery efforts for this State of Emergency, including
all appropriate equipment.

IT IS FURTHER

That said Georgia National Guard troops be called up to State Active
Duty as necessary by the Adjutant General.

IT IS FURTHER

That the weight, height, and length of any vehicle traveling through
the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief related to this
State of Emergency, which traverses roadways maintained by the
State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five thousand (95,000) pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined

Page 4 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 844-837-5500 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://www.gaprospermits.com/.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations limiting the hours
that operators of commercial vehicles may drive, 49 C.F.R. § 390
et seq., are suspended to ensure the uninterrupted supply of goods
and services necessary to respond to this State of Emergency,
including petroleum products, for fourteen (14) days or until the
emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is less, pursuant to
49 C.F.R. § 390.23. Nothing herein shall be construed as an
exemption from the commercial driver’s license requirements in
49 C.F.R. § 383.1 et seg., or the financial requirements in
49 C.F.R. § 387.1 et seq., or to require or allow an ill or fatigued driver
to operate a motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor vehicle
carrier that he or she needs immediate rest will be given at least ten
(10) consecutive hours off duty before being required to return to
service, in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 390.23.

IT IS FURTHER
That, pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to
goods and services necessary for preparation, response, and recovery

activities for this State of Emergency, including motor fuel, diesel
fuel, and other petroleum products, would be detrimental to the

Page 5 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

social and economic welfare of the citizens of this State and is
therefore prohibited.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions of this Order shall be held to be
invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in violation of
Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity,
violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of
this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be construed as if such
invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had never been contained
within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order does not suspend the operation of any state or
federal law or regulation, except as specifically described herein.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on
the scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further executive orders.

IT IS FURTHER

That all provisions of the Order shall become effective upon
signature and shall be valid for a period of seven (7) days, expiring

Thursday, October 15, 2026, at 11:59 P.M. unless this State of
Emergency is renewed by the Governor.

Bh

“GOVERNOR

This 8th day of October 2026.

Page 6 of 6
