THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

EMPOWERING A HEALTHY GEORGIA

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

On March 14, 2020, I issued a Proclamation convening the General
Assembly of Georgia in special session on Monday 16, 2020 at 8:00
A.M. for the express purpose of concurring with or terminating the
Public Health State of Emergency in accordance with Code Section
38-3-51(a); and

The Georgia General Assembly met in special session and concurred
with Executive Order 03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16,
2020, thereby affirming the existence of a Public Health State of
Emergency and vesting me with the emergency powers enumerated
in Code Section 38-3-50 et seq.; and

Georgia law does not require that the General Assembly concur with
every rule, regulation, or order the Governor issues in response to a
Public Health State of Emergency; the law requires only that the
General Assembly concur with the initial existence of such a state of
emergency, and the Governor is thereafter charged with ongoing
management of a state of emergency; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

On April 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until June 12, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.30.20.01; and

On May 28, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until July 12, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 05.28.20.01; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On June 29, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until August 11, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 06.29.20.01; and

On July 31, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until September 10, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 07.31.20.01;
and

On August 31, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until October 10, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 08.31.20.01; and

On September 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until November 9, 2020 by issuing Executive Order
09.30.20.01; and

On October 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until December 9, 2020 by issuing Executive Order
10.30.20.01; and

On November 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until January 8, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
11.30.20.01; and

On December 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until February 7, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
12.30.20.01; and

On January 29, 2021, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until March 7, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
01.29.21.01; and

On February 26, 2021, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until April 6, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
02.26.21.01; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

The Georgia Constitution, Art. III, § VI, Para. IV provides that no
local or special law can contravene a statewide law of general
applicability; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor” have the force and effect
of law; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with protecting the
citizens of this State, including during a state of emergency; and

Page 2 of 54

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

The General Assembly has entrusted the authority to declare a state
of emergency to the Governor and vested him with the sole power to
direct and manage the statewide response to any such emergency, as
Code Section 45-12-30 provides that, “[W]hen, in his opinion, the
facts warrant, the Governor shall, by proclamation, declare that,
because of unlawful assemblage, violence, overt threats of violence,
or otherwise, a danger exists to the person or property of any citizen
or citizens of the state and that the peace and tranquility of the state
or of any area or political subdivision thereof is threatened, and
because thereof an emergency, with reference to said threats and
danger, exists. In all such cases, when the Governor shall issue his
proclamation he shall be and is further authorized, in coping with
said threats and danger, to order and direct any person, corporation,
association, or group of persons to do any act which would, in his
opinion, prevent danger to life, limb, or property or prevent a breach
of the peace; or he may order such person, corporation, association,
or group of persons to refrain from doing any act or thing which
would, in his opinion, endanger life, limb, or property or cause, or
tend to cause, a breach of the peace, or endanger the peace and good
order of society; and he shall have full power to enforce such order
or proclamation by appropriate means”; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
enforce all laws, rules, and regulations relating to emergency
management and to assume direct operational control of all civil
forces and helpers in the state; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

The Georgia Constitution, Art. IX, § 2, Para. III(c) grants the General
Assembly the ability to regulate, restrict, or limit the powers of local
governments by general law; and

To ensure the public’s safety and prevent confusion, it is necessary
for the State’s departments, agencies, and political subdivisions to

Page 3 of 54

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

provide a coordinated response to support the Governor’s emergency
management rules, regulations, and orders; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(2) vests the Governor with the power to
utilize all available resources of the state government and of each
political subdivision of the state as reasonably necessary to cope with
the emergency or disaster, therefore providing the Governor with
emergency authority over all resources of every local government of
the State; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(3) establishes the Governor’s emergency
authority over the operation of state departments and agencies by
vesting the Governor with the power to transfer the direction,
personnel, or functions of state departments and agencies or units
thereof for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency
services; and

To ensure the Governor is equipped with all resources necessary to
respond to a public health state of emergency, the General Assembly
has vested him with the option to delegate expanded powers to the
Department of Public Health in such an event as Code Section 38-3-
51(i) provides that the Governor may direct the Department of
Public Health to coordinate all matters pertaining to the response of
the state to a public health emergency; and

Pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51(i), in Executive Order 03.14.20.01,
I instructed the Department of Public Health to coordinate with the
Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency to
take any action necessary to protect the public’s health, including,
without limitation:

(1) Planning and executing public health emergency assessments,
mitigation, preparedness response, and recovery for the state;

(2) Coordinating public health emergency responses between
state and local authorities;

(3) Establishing protocols to control the spread of COVID-19;

(4) Coordinating recovery operations and mitigation initiatives;

(5) Collaborating with appropriate federal government
authorities, elected officials of other states, private
organizations, or private sector companies;

(6) Organizing public information activities regarding the state’s
public health emergency response operations, including
educating the public on prevention of the spread of COVID-19
based on Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s
guidelines and the best scientific evidence available;

(7) Providing special identification for public health personnel
involved in this Public Health State of Emergency;

Page 4 of 54

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

(8) For all persons meeting the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s definition of a Person Under Investigation
(“PUI”), implementing a program of active monitoring, which
may include a risk assessment within twenty-four (24) hours
of learning that the person meets the PUI criteria and twice-
daily temperature checks for a period of at least fourteen (14)
days or until the PUI tests negative for COVID-19; and

(9) Implementing quarantine, isolation, and other necessary
public health interventions consistent with Code Sections 31-
12-4 and 38-3-51(i)(2) or as otherwise authorized by law.

Notwithstanding said broad instructions, the authority delegated to
the Department of Public Health is subject to the limitations of Code
Section 38-3-28(a), and such delegation did not lessen or relinquish
the Governor’s superior emergency management powers; and

Georgia law grants the Department of Public Health other duties and
authority for general and emergency disease prevention and control;
and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vests the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said
individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

To ensure advance preparation for a public health emergency, the
Georgia legislature has provided in Code Section 31-12-3(a) that the
Department of Public Health may require vaccinations or other
measures to prevent the conveyance of infectious matter from
infected persons to other persons as may be necessary and
appropriate, although this Code Section does not vest sole power in
the department to do so and the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Department to provide for the implementation of such
measures during a public health state of emergency must be adopted
pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the “Georgia Administrative
Procedure Act,”; and

Code Section 38-12-2.1 provides that in the event of a public health
emergency, the Department of Public Health shall carry out certain
investigatory duties relating to the identification of the illness or
health condition, the source thereof, and infected or potentially
infected persons, and shall promulgate rules and regulations
appropriate for management of any declared public health
emergency; and

Page 5 of 54

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

The Department of Public Health is also authorized to adopt and
implement emergency rules and regulations pursuant to the
provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-13-4; however, all
such rules, regulations, and emergency rules and regulations remain
subject to the provisions of Code Section 38-3-51(1); and

The various public health emergency related powers designated to
the Department of Public Health are not mutually exclusive, and
pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51, are subject to the Governor’s own
emergency management orders; and

In addition to the limitations on agency authority during a state of
emergency set forth in Code Section 38-3-51, Code Section 38-3-
28(a) prohibits political subdivisions of the state from making,
amending, or rescinding any orders, rules, and regulations as may be
necessary for emergency management that are inconsistent with any
orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the Governor; and

Local rules, ordinances, orders, or mandates that provide for any
action more or less permissive than the recommendations and
requirements of this Order will result in an incompatible outcome for
the uniform response to COVID-19, therefore constituting
inconsistency as Black’s Law Dictionary defines “inconsistent” as
lacking agreement among parts or otherwise not compatible with
another fact or claim; and

In accordance with Georgia law, the Governor has ultimate authority
over the State’s emergency management procedures because, while
other agencies and political subdivisions of the State may be directed
or authorized to develop and implement emergency management
plans, rules, regulations, and emergency rules and regulations, Code
Section 38-3-28(a) clearly provides that no such rule, regulation, or
order may be inconsistent with the Governor’s own emergency
management directives; and

In consultation with public health and emergency preparedness
officials, I have determined that the following actions are necessary
and appropriate to protect the strength of Georgia’s economy and
provide for the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and
visitors.

NOw, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA

LAW, CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME
AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

Page 6 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

That unless otherwise noted, the provisions contained in this Order
shall be effective from March 1, 2021 at 12:00 A.M. until March 15,
2021 at 11:59 P.M.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice
Social Distancing as defined herein and refrain from Gathering as
defined herein.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are strongly
encouraged to wear face coverings as practicable while outside their
homes or place of residence, except when eating, drinking, or
exercising outdoors.

IT IS FURTHER

All residents and visitors of the State of Georgia shall practice
sanitation in accordance with the guidelines published by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

IT IS FURTHER

That no Organization or county or municipal government shall allow
Gatherings of persons. This provision shall not apply to cohabitating
persons, family units, or roommates residing together in private
homes, whether inside or outside of their homes or place of
residence. This provision shall also not apply to entities defined as
“Critical Infrastructure.”

IL, DEFINITIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That the following definitions shall apply to this Order:

1. “Camp” shall mean any entity offering organized sessions of
supervised recreational, athletic, or instructional activities
held between typical school terms or during school breaks,
including those entities commonly referred to as “day camps”,
and any license-exempt day camps operating during school
terms for the purposes specifically permitted by this Order.

Page 7 of 54

2. “Camper” shall mean any person that attends a Camp as a
participant. This provision shall specifically exclude those
persons who volunteer or work at Camps.

3. “Convention” shall mean an organized event of more than 100
persons that are required to register or obtain a license to
gather for a common purpose at a single indoor facility or
grouping of indoor facilities for more than four hours and in
some cases for more than one day. Such definition shall
include exhibitions, trade shows, conferences, and business
retreats. Conventions shall not include any regular operation
of a business that occurs on property owned or leased for the
exclusive operation of such business. Conventions shall not
include regular religious services, business meetings, sports
competitions, or events categorized by Code Section 16-11-
173(b)()(A).

4. “Critical Infrastructure” shall include all Workers and
Organizations included in versions 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0 of
Guidance on Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers
released by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security on
March 19, 2020, March 28, 2020, and April 17, 2020,
respectively. The term “Critical Infrastructure” shall also
include those suppliers which provide essential goods and
services to the Critical Infrastructure workforce as well as
entities that provide legal services, home hospice, and non-
profit corporations or non-profit organizations that offer food
distribution or other health or mental health services.

5. “Essential Services” shall include those activities outlined
below:

A. Obtaining supplies and services for family or
household members, such as food and supplies for
household consumption and use, medical supplies or
medication, supplies and equipment needed to work
from home, and products needed to maintain safety,
sanitation, and essential maintenance of the home or
residence. Preference should be given to online
ordering, home delivery, and curbside pick-up services
wherever possible as opposed to in-store shopping;
Engaging in activities essential for the health and safety
of family or household members;

Seeking medical, behavioral health, or emergency

services;

Activities that may preserve the health and welfare of

persons within this State;

The transport, visitation, and regular care of family

members and persons dependent on the services of

others, and similar actions that ensure the welfare and
best interests of persons in the State of Georgia,

ow

moo 8

Page 8 of 54

specifically including the elderly, children, and
disabled populations;

F. Children obtaining public internet access to fulfill
educational obligations; and

G. Engaging in outdoor exercise activities so long as Social
Distancing is practiced during such activities between
all persons who are not occupants of the same
household or residence.

6. “Gathering” shall mean more than fifty (50) persons
physically present at a Single Location if, to be present,
persons are required to stand or be seated within six (6) feet
of any other person. Therefore, groups of more than fifty (50)
people are permitted if their grouping is transitory or
incidental, or if their grouping is the result of being spread
across more than one Single Location.

7. “Hand Sanitizer” shall mean any hand antiseptic, hand rub,
soap, or agent applied to the hands for the purpose of
removing common pathogens.

8. “Live Performance Venue” shall mean any indoor or outdoor
location that requires patrons to purchase a license to attend
an event featuring live musical, dramatical, automotive,
educational, or any other type of entertainment performed
before in-person patrons. This definition shall not include
Restaurants and Dining Rooms, school, university, college, or
technical college classrooms or lecture halls, banquet
facilities, private event facilities, private reception venues,
weddings, drive-in venues, or events held as part of a
Convention. This definition shall specifically not include
outdoor recreational fields used for amateur sporting events
— as provided in Section IX of this Executive Order, titled
“Sports & Live Performance Venues,” such fields and
accompanying seating, if any, shall operate pursuant to the
guidelines for non-Critical Infrastructure.

9g. “Local Option Face Covering Requirement” shall mean a
requirement imposed by a municipal, county, or other
government entity that individuals wear face masks or face
coverings when not able to maintain Social Distancing from
non-cohabitating persons that is permitted by the terms of
this Executive Order.

10. “Long-Term Care Facility” shall include all:

A. “Intermediate care facilities,” “personal care homes,”
and “skilled nursing facilities’ as defined by Code
Section 31-6-2;

B. “Nursing homes” as defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r.

111-8-56-.01(a);

| C. “Inpatient hospice” as defined by Code Section 31-7-

172 and licensed pursuant to Code Section 31-7-173;

Page 9 of 54


11.

12.

13.

14.

D. “Assisted living communities” and all facilities
providing “assisted living care” pursuant to Code
Section 31-7-12.2;

E. “Community living arrangements” as classified by the
Department of Community Health pursuant to Code
Section 31-2-4(d)(8); and

F. “Community integration homes” operated by the
Georgia Department of Behavioral Health and
Developmental Disabilities.

“Necessary Travel” shall mean such travel as is required to

conduct or participate in Essential Services or Critical

Infrastructure as defined by this Order.

“Organization” shall mean any business, establishment,

corporation, non-profit corporation, organization, or other

entity.

“Personal Protective Equipment” shall mean surgical masks,

N95 masks, respirators, other face masks, protective gloves,

protective clothing, protective garments, and shoe coverings.

“Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol” shall mean that, in

accordance with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

and Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines, any

person who has had close contact (six (6) feet or closer for a

cumulative total of fifteen (15) minutes or more) with a person

that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the past
fourteen (14) days is required to either:

A. Quarantine at their home or place of residence for fourteen
(14) days from the date of most recent exposure;

B. Quarantine at their home or place of residence for at least
ten (10) days from the date of most recent exposure, then
practice extreme diligence in monitoring for Symptoms of
COVID-19, wearing a face covering, and social distancing
until fourteen (14) days have passed since the date of most
recent exposure;

C. Quarantine at their home or place of residence for at least
seven (7) days from the date of most recent exposure if a
COVID-1ig9 test was taken no earlier than day five (5) of
quarantine and a negative result is received, then practice
extreme diligence in monitoring for Symptoms of COVID-
19, wearing a face covering, and social distancing until
fourteen (14) days have passed since the date of most .
recent exposure; or

D. If the exposed person has:

i. Been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, meaning
two (2) or more weeks have passed since receipt of
one does of a single-dose vaccine or the second dose
in a two-dose vaccine series and not more than

Page 10 of 54

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20

three (3) months have passed following receipt of
the last dose of vaccine; or
ii. Recovered from illness due to laboratory confirmed
COVID-19 infection, has already met criteria to end
isolation, and is within ninety (90) days following
the onset of symptoms of the initial laboratory
confirmed COVID-19 infection or ninety (90) days
of the first positive COVID-19 test result if they were
asymptomatic during the initial infection;
the person shall not be required to quarantine but shall
actively monitor for Symptoms of COVID-19.
If at any time during the Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol
time period a person experiences Symptoms of COVID-19,
that person shall seek a COVID-19 test, isolate until test
results are received, and proceed in accordance with the test
results and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and
Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines.
“Restaurants and Dining Rooms” shall mean any entity
defined as a “food service establishment” pursuant to Code
Section 26-2-370(2).
“Shelter in Place” shall mean a person is required to remain in
their home or place of residence and take every possible
precaution to limit social interaction to prevent the spread or
infection of COVID-19 to themselves or any other person,
subject to the provisions and exceptions of this Order.
“Single Location” shall mean a space where all persons
gathered cannot maintain at least six (6) feet of distance
between themselves and any other person.
“Social Distancing” shall mean keeping space between
yourself and other people outside of your home or place of
residence. Persons practicing Social Distancing should stay at
least six (6) feet from other people, avoid assembling in
groups, avoid crowded places, and avoid large crowds. This
provision shall not apply to cohabitating persons, family
units, or roommates residing together in private homes,
whether inside or outside of their homes or place of residence.
“Symptoms of COVID-19” shall mean symptoms identified by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as symptoms
of COVID-19 and shall include at least the following: fever or
chills; cough; shortness of breath or difficulty breathing;
fatigue; muscle or body aches; headache; new loss of taste or
smell; sore throat; congestion or runny nose; nausea or
vomiting; and diarrhea.

“Threshold Requirement” shall mean the prevalence in a

county of confirmed cases of COVID-i9 over the previous
fourteen (14) days is equal to or greater than one hundred

Page 11 of 54

|
;
)

(100) cases per one hundred thousand (100,000) people
according to the Georgia Department of Public Health.

21. “Worker” shall include employees, independent contractors,

agents, volunteers, or other representatives of an
Organization.

ITI. SHELTERING IN PLACE

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia who meet the
following criteria for higher risk of severe illness as defined by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are required to Shelter
in Place within their homes or places of residence:

1,

VP Y

Those persons who live in a Long-Term Care Facility.

Those persons who have chronic lung disease.

Those persons who have moderate to severe asthma.

Those persons who have severe heart disease.

Those persons who are immunocompromised. Many
conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised,
including cancer treatment, smoking, bone marrow or organ
transplantation, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV
or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other
immune weakening medication.

Those persons, of any age, with class III or severe obesity.
Those persons diagnosed with the following underlying
medical conditions: diabetes, liver disease, and persons with
chronic kidney disease undergoing dialysis.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That persons required to Shelter in Place shall be permitted to
engage in the following activities:

1.
2.

3.

Conducting or participating in Essential Services;

Performing Necessary Travel;

Engaging in gainful employment or the performance of, or
travel to and from the performance of, minimum necessary
activities to maintain the value of an Organization not
classified as Critical Infrastructure;

Working in or for Critical Infrastructure and being actively
engaged in the performance of, or travel to and from, their
respective employment; or

For residents of Long-Term Care Facilities other than
community living arrangements and community integration
homes, any activity permitted by the State of Georgia

Page 12 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Department of Public Health’s Long-Term Care Facilities
Reopening Guidance Administrative Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That persons required to Shelter in Place shall not receive visitors,
except as follows:

1. Visitors providing medical, behavioral health, or emergency
services or medical supplies or medication, including home
hospice;

2. Visitors providing support for the person to conduct activities
of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living;

3. Visitors providing necessary supplies and services, such as
food and supplies for household consumption and use,
supplies and equipment needed to work from home, and
products needed to maintain safety, sanitation, and essential
maintenance of the home or residence;

Visitors received during end-of-life circumstances; or

For residents of Long-Term Care Facilities other than
community living arrangements and community integration
homes, any visitors permitted by the State of Georgia
Department of Public Health’s Long-Term Care Facilities
Reopening Guidance Administrative Order.

To the extent practicable under the circumstances, visitors shall
maintain a minimum distance of six (6) feet between themselves and
all other occupants of the person’s home or residence. Any visitors
visiting for the sole purpose of delivering medication, supplies, or
other tangible goods shall, to the extent practicable, deliver such
items in a manner that does not require in-person contact or require
the deliverer to enter the person’s home or residence.

gs

IT IS FURTHER

That the provisions of this Order related to visitors listed in the
immediately preceding paragraph shall be strictly enforced upon
Long-Term Care Facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

That an exception to any Shelter in Place requirement set forth
hereunder applies in the event of an emergency. In such cases,
persons are encouraged to leave their homes or residences and
Shelter in Place in accordance with the rules included in this Order
at a safe alternate location. Persons experiencing homelessness are
urged to obtain shelter and contact governmental and other entities
for assistance.

Page 13 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this order shall prohibit community ombudsmen as
defined in Code Section 31-8-132(2) or the state ombudsman as
defined in Code Section 31-8-132(8) from having access to or
performing inspections of Long-Term Care Facilities pursuant to
Code Section 31-8-55.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this order shall prohibit individuals providing
support coordination services through funding from the Georgia
Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities
pursuant to Code Sections 37-5-1 et seq. from having access to or
conducting health and safety visits within Long-Term Care Facilities.

IV. RESTAURANTS & DINING SERVICES

IT IS FURTHER

That all Restaurants and Dining Rooms as well as all banquet
facilities, private event facilities, and private reception venues where
food is served that operate during the effective dates of this Order
shall implement measures which mitigate the exposure and spread
of COVID-19 among its patrons and workforce. Such measures shall
include the following:
1. Screen and evaluate Workers who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19;
2, Require Workers who exhibit Symptoms of COVID-19 to not
report to work or to seek medical attention. Per existing U.S.
Food and Drug Administration Food Code requirements,
Workers who are sick should remain home. If a Worker
becomes ill or presents Symptoms of COVID-19 at work, the
operator should identify the Worker’s condition during a pre-
work screening and send the Worker home. Restaurants shall
create, maintain, and follow established policies regarding
when Workers who have become ill are permitted to return to
work. A Worker with known or suspected COVID-19 must
follow Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines
to self-isolate for at least ten (10) days after onset of
Symptoms of COVID-19 and end isolation only after
Symptoms of COVID-19 have improved and the Worker has
been fever-free and/or free of Symptoms of COVID-19 for
twenty-four (24) consecutive hours without medication
before returning to work;
3. Implement teleworking for all possible Workers;

Page 14 of 54

as

10.

11.
12.

13.
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

Implement staggered shifts for all possible Workers;

Hold all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

Train all Workers on the importance and expectation of
increased frequency of handwashing, the use of Hand
Sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol, and provide clear
instruction to avoid touching hands to face;

Require Workers to wear face coverings while interacting with
patrons. Workers may also wear face shields in addition to
their face coverings. Such face coverings and face shields shall
be cleaned or replaced daily;

Where possible, stagger workstations to avoid Workers
standing adjacent to one another or next to each other. Where
six (6) feet of separation is not possible, consider spacing
options that include other mitigation efforts with increased
frequency of cleaning and sanitizing surfaces;

Establish a limit for the maximum number of Workers
permitted in Worker breakrooms to reduce contact;

Prohibit handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

Increase physical space between Workers and patrons;

Limit contact between Workers and patrons;

Discard all food items that are out of date;

If providing salad bars and buffets, use cafeteria style service
where a Worker is responsible for serving the patron,
handling the utensils, and ensuring proper distancing in lines,
or require that Hand Sanitizer is provided on the buffet or
salad bar, that a sneeze guard is properly in place, that Social
Distancing is enforced, and that utensils are replaced
regularly;

If providing a “grab and go” service, stock coolers to no more
than minimum levels;

Ensure the Food Safety Manager certification of the person in
charge is up-to-date and provide food handler training to
refresh Workers;

Maintain a regular cleaning schedule for the entire facility and
frequently clean and sanitize high contact areas that are
touched often by Workers and/or patrons including, but not
limited to, table condiments, digital ordering devices, check
presenters, self-service areas, reusable menus, tabletops, and
playgrounds;

Remove items from self-service drink, condiment, utensil,
and tableware stations and have Workers provide such items
to patrons directly wherever practicable;

The use of disposable paper menus is strongly encouraged,
which should be discarded after each patron use. Non-touch
menus are also encouraged;

Page 15 of 54

20.Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing based
on the frequency of use, and always ensure adequate supply of
soap and paper towels;

21. Verify that ware-washing machines are operating at the
required wash and rinse temperatures and with the
appropriate detergents and sanitizers;

22. Redesigning seating arrangements to ensure at least six (6)
feet of separation from seating to seating or utilizing physical
barriers to separate groups of seating within six (6) feet;

23. Where practical, consider a reservations-only business model
or call-ahead seating;

24.Post signage on entrances that no one with Symptoms of
COVID-19 is permitted in the facility;

25. Where practicable, physical barriers such as partitions or
Plexiglas at registers should be used;

26. Use technological solutions where possible to reduce person-
to-person interaction: mobile ordering, mobile access to
menus to plan, text on arrival for seating, and contactless
payment options;

27.Provide Hand Sanitizer for use by patrons, including
contactless hand sanitizing stations when available;

28.Do not allow patrons to congregate on restaurant premises or
the curtilage thereof. Design a process to ensure patron
separation while waiting to be seated that can include floor
markings, outdoor distancing, or waiting in cars;

29.If possible, use an exit from the facility separate from the
entrance;

30. Mark ingress/egress to and from restrooms to establish paths
that mitigate proximity for patrons and Workers; and

31. Ensure ventilation systems operate properly and increase
circulation and purification of air within facilities as
practicable.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That none of the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Dining Services,” shall apply to the operation of dine-
in services in hospitals, health care facilities, nursing homes, or other
long-term care facilities, but such facilities should implement
measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 if possible.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: To the extent that the provisions of Section IV of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Dining Services,” conflict with the provisions of
Section V of this Order, titled “Industry, Commerce, &
Organizations,” the provisions of Section IV shall control.

Page 16 of 54

.
|

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

V. INDUSTRY, COMMERCE, & ORGANIZATIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Economic Development is
authorized to issue guidance to any Organization or industry trade
group regarding its status as Critical Infrastructure. This guidance
shall not require a finding of fact but shall be in writing and shall be
considered a final agency action for the purpose of proceedings
under Code Section 50-13-19.

IT IS FURTHER

Critical Infrastructure that continue in-person operation during the
effective dates of this Order shall implement measures which
mitigate the exposure and spread of COVID-19. Such measures may
include, but shall not be limited to the following, which shall be
implemented to the maximum extent practicable:
1. Screening and evaluating Workers who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19;
2. Requiring Workers who exhibit Symptoms of COVID-19 to
not report to work or to seek medical attention;
Enhancing sanitation of the workplace as appropriate;
Disinfecting frequently touched surfaces regularly;
Requiring handwashing or sanitation by Workers at
appropriate places within the business location;
Prohibiting Gatherings of Workers during working hours;
Permitting Workers to take breaks and lunch outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper Social Distancing is attainable;
. Implementing teleworking for all possible Workers;
Implementing staggered shifts for all possible Workers;
0. Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;
11. Delivering intangible services remotely, whenever possible;
12. Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;
13. Ifin use, open sales registers must be at least six (6) feet apart;
14. Point of sale equipment, including PIN entry devices and
signature pads, should be frequently cleaned and sanitized;
15. Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are
likely to be seen; and
16. Ensuring ventilation systems operate properly and increasing
circulation and purification of air within facilities as
practicable.

ND DBL

Page 17 of 54

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That all Organizations that are not Critical Infrastructure that
continue in-person operations during the effective dates of this
Order shall implement measures which mitigate the exposure and
spread of COVID-19 among its workforce. Such measures shall
include the following:

1.

2.

&

aS

on

10.
11.
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.
19.

Screening and evaluating Workers who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19;

Posting a sign on the front of the facility stating that
individuals who have Symptoms of COVID-19 shall not enter
the store;

Requiring Workers who exhibit Symptoms of COVID-19 to
not report to work or to seek medical attention;

Enhancing sanitation as appropriate;

Disinfecting frequently touched surfaces regularly;

Requiring handwashing or sanitation at appropriate places
within the location;

Prohibiting Gatherings during hours of operation;
Permitting Workers to take breaks and meals outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper Social Distancing is attainable;

Implementing teleworking as practicable;

Implementing staggered shifts as practicable;

Holding all meetings and conferences virtually as practicable;
Delivering intangible services remotely as practicable;
Prohibiting handshaking and unnecessary person-to-person
contact;

Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the facility and in other areas where they are likely to be
seen;

For retailers and service providers, providing for alternative
points of sale outside of buildings, including curbside pick-up
or delivery of products and/or services if an alternative point
of sale is permitted under Georgia law;

For retailers and service providers, open sales registers must
be at least six (6) feet apart;

Point of sale equipment, including PIN entry devices and
signature pads, should be frequently cleaned and sanitized;
Increasing physical space between Workers and patrons;

If the entity engages volunteers or has members of the public
participate in activities, prohibiting volunteering or
participation in activities for persons diagnosed with COVID-
19, having exhibited Symptoms of COVID-19, or having had
contact with a person that has or is suspected to have COVID-
19 within the past fourteen (14) days and having not yet
completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol; and

Page 18 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

20.Ensuring ventilation systems operate properly and increasing
circulation and purification of air within facilities as
practicable.

IT IS FURTHER

That Critical Infrastructure and all other Organizations that continue
in-person operation during the effective dates of this Order should
implement the following measures if practicable:

1. Providing Personal Protective Equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the Worker within
the business location;

2. Providing disinfectant and sanitation products for Workers to
clean their workspace, equipment, and tools; and

3. Increasing physical space between Workers’ worksites to at
least six (6) feet.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, Food
Establishments (such as retail and wholesale grocery stores), as
defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 40-7-1-.02 but not to include food
processing plants or wholesale sandwich and salad manufacturers,
shall implement additional measures to those listed above as
practicable. Such measures may include, but shall not be limited to
the following, which shall be implemented to the maximum extent
practicable:
1. Scheduling specific hours of operation for vulnerable
populations to shop;
2. Enacting policies and procedures to encourage Social
Distancing for patrons and Workers. Measures may include:
a. Protective Plexiglass screens at service counters and at

cash registers;

b. Decals on the floor or aisles with messaging on Social
Distancing;

c. Signs throughout the store giving visuals on Social
Distancing;

d. Limited occupancy if store becomes too crowded; and
e. Use of one-way aisles;
3. Providing Personal Protective Equipment as available and
appropriate to the function and location of the Worker within
the business location;
Encouraging patrons to wear face coverings;
Utilizing in-store messaging to educate and remind patrons
and Workers on recommended hygiene and _ Social
Distancing;

gS

Page 19 of 54

6.

Increasing sanitation of grocery carts, and other high-touch
areas such as door handles, point of sales equipment,
conveyor belts, and other surfaces;

Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing based
on frequency of use, and always ensuring adequate supply of
soap and paper towels;

8. Allowing time for frequent handwashing for Workers,

9.

including cashiers, that interact directly with patrons;
Increasing or adding hand sanitizing stations around stores
for patrons and Workers; and

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That in addition to the applicable requirements above, gyms and
fitness centers shall implement additional measures to prevent the
spread of COVID-19, as practicable. Such measures shall include:

1.

10.

11.

Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons that they
cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19,
have Symptoms of COVID-19, or have had contact with a
person that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the
past fourteen (14) days and have not yet completed the Post-
Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct patrons of the enhanced sanitation procedures, Social
Distancing requirements, and other instructions and
limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

If Workers are present at the gym or fitness center, screening
patrons at the entrance and prohibiting entrance for patrons
exhibiting Symptoms of COVID-19;

Limiting occupancy to enforce Social Distancing
requirements and to prohibit Gatherings;

Utilizing contactless forms of patron check-in;

Providing Hand Sanitizer stations as available for patrons;
Providing antibacterial sanitation wipes as available at or near
equipment and requiring users to wipe down the equipment
after use;

Requiring Workers, if any, to patrol patron areas to enforce
the equipment wipe-down policy;

Limiting use of cardio machines to every other machine or
distancing machines to maintain acceptable Social Distancing
between users;

Enforcing Social Distancing and prohibiting congregating
between non-cohabitating patrons, especially in pools, group
fitness classes, and areas where group sports regularly occur;
Encouraging patrons to conduct their workout and exit the
facility without unnecessary delay;

Page 20 of 54

ORDERED:

12.

13.

14.

15.
16.

Complying with the regulations for “Childcare Facilities”
included in Section VII of this Order titled “Education &
Children” if childcare services are provided;

In addition to the regular cleaning schedule, cleaning and
sanitizing high touch surfaces, bathrooms, and locker rooms
regularly throughout hours of operation;

Practicing Social Distancing between trainers and patrons as
practicable;

Requiring no less than ten (10) feet of distance between
patrons participating in group fitness classes; and

Requiring rooms and equipment used for group fitness classes
to be cleaned and disinfected regularly.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, body art
studios permitted pursuant to Code Section 31-40-2, Organizations
registered pursuant to Code Sections 43-10-11 and 43-10-18,
estheticians as defined by Code Section 43-10-1(8), hair designers as
defined by Code Section 43-10-1(9), persons licensed to practice
massage therapy pursuant to Code Section 43-24A-8, and tanning
facilities as defined by Code Section 31-38-1(6) shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, as
practicable. Such measures shall include:

1.

2.

Encouraging patrons to use Hand Sanitizer upon entering the
facility and before any treatment;

Posting signs at the entrance and at eye-level at each
workstation stating that any patron who has Symptoms of
COVID-19 must reschedule their appointment;

Allowing only one patron per service provider in the business
at any one time;

Allowing one parent to be within a facility if their minor child
is receiving a haircut;

Encouraging patrons to wait in their vehicle or outside the
establishment until the service provider is ready, or patrons
may wait in a waiting area inside the facility provided that all
seating within the waiting area is spaced so that no waiting
patron is seated within six (6) feet of any other person and all
waiting patrons are required to wear face coverings;
Staggering use of every-other workstation or spacing
workstations more than ten (10) feet apart, whichever option
is practicable given the facility's configuration,

Staggering work schedules so that no more than 50% of the
normal number of Workers providing services will be in the
business at a time;

Requiring Workers to wear masks or face coverings while
providing service to a patron;

Page 21 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

9.

Sanitizing all equipment, chairs, and tables used by Workers
and patrons regularly; and

10. Training all Workers on additional measures.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, indoor movie
theaters and cinemas choosing to operate during the effective dates
of this Order shall implement additional measures to prevent the
spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1.
2.

Each party of patrons must be seated at least six (6) feet apart;
At least one usher must be used in each theater room before
and at some point during each showing to ensure that proper
Social Distancing protocol is enforced;

Seats, armrests, handrails, doors, doorknobs, and door
handles in each theater must be thoroughly sanitized
regularly;

Tape may be applied to floors at ticket counters and
concession stands to enforce proper Social Distancing
protocol for patrons who are waiting in line;

Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing based
on frequency of use, and always ensuring adequate supply of
soap and paper towels;

Food service areas must adhere to the same guidelines set
forth in Section IV, titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”,
above; and

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above, bowling alleys
choosing to operate during the effective dates of this Order shall
implement additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Such measures shall include:

1.

Placing signage at entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct patrons of Social Distancing requirements and other
instructions and limitations, as applicable;

Providing Hand Sanitizer stations for patrons throughout the
facility;

. Food service areas must adhere to the same guidelines set

forth in Section IV, titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”,
above;

Tape may be applied to floors at ticket counters and rental
stations to enforce proper Social Distancing protocol for
patrons who are waiting in line;

Staggering use of lanes so that only every other lane or every
third lane is in use to maintain proper Social Distancing

Page 22 of 54

ORDERED:

between groups of patrons. Each party of patrons must be
seated at least six (6) feet apart;

Score keeping machines, ball returns, tables, seats, and other
fixtures at each bowling lane must be thoroughly sanitized
regularly;

Bowling balls and bowling shoes must be thoroughly sanitized
before and after each party; and

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above for non-
Critical Infrastructure, Organizations which possess a license to
operate as or otherwise meet the definition of “bar” as defined by
Code Section 3-1-2(2.1) shall implement additional measures to
prevent the spread of COVID-19, as practicable. Such measures
shall include:

1.

2.

ADS

Screening and evaluating Workers who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19;

Requiring Workers who exhibit Symptoms of COVID-19 to
not report to work or to seek medical attention. Per existing
U.S. Food and Drug Administration Food Code requirements,
Workers who are sick should remain home. If a Worker
becomes ill or presents Symptoms of COVID-19, the operator
should identify the Worker’s condition during a pre-work
screening and send the Worker home. Bars shall create,
maintain, and follow established policies regarding when
Workers who have become ill are permitted to return to work.
A Worker with known or suspected COVID-19 must follow
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines to self-
isolate for at least ten (10) days after onset of Symptoms of
COVID-19 and end isolation only after Symptoms of COVID-
19 have improved and the Worker has been fever-free and/or
free of Symptoms of COVID-19 for twenty-four (24)
consecutive hours without medication before returning to
work;

Limiting the number of total persons inside the bar to fifty
(50) persons or thirty-five percent (35%) of total listed fire
capacity occupancy of the entire bar, whichever is greater,
Implementing teleworking for all possible Workers;
Implementing staggered shifts for all possible Workers;
Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

Training all Workers on the importance and expectation of
increased frequency of handwashing, the use of Hand
Sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol, and provide clear
instruction to avoid touching hands to face;

Page 23 of 54

8. Requiring all Workers to wear face coverings at all times.
Workers may also wear face shields in addition to their face
coverings. Such face coverings and face shields shall be
cleaned or replaced daily;

9. Where possible, staggering workstations to avoid Workers
standing adjacent to one another or next to each other. Where
six (6) feet of separation is not possible, consider spacing
options that include other mitigation efforts with increased
frequency of cleaning and sanitizing surfaces;

10. Establishing a limit for the maximum number of Workers
permitted in Worker breakrooms to reduce contact;

11. Prohibiting handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact in the workplace;

12. Enforcing Social Distancing of non-cohabitating persons
while present on such entity’s leased or owned property;

13. Increasing physical space between Workers and patrons;

14. Limiting contact between Workers and patrons;

15. Maintaining a regular cleaning schedule for the entire facility
and frequently cleaning and sanitizing high contact areas that
are touched often by Workers and/or patrons;

16. Removing any self-service items and have Workers provide
such items to patrons directly wherever practicable;

17. Requiring the use of disposable paper menus, if applicable,
and discarding such menus after each patron use. Non-touch
menus are also acceptable for use;

18. Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing based
on the frequency of use, and always ensuring adequate supply
of soap and paper towels;

19. Verifying that ware-washing machines are operating at the
required wash and rinse temperatures and with the
appropriate detergents and sanitizers;

20. Establishing seating areas for patrons to discourage loitering
at the bar or in commonly trafficked areas;

21. Providing service only to seated patrons, or, if not applicable,
to patrons in designated areas that are practicing Social
Distancing;

22. Redesigning seating arrangements to ensure at least six (6)
feet of separation from seating to seating or utilizing physical
barriers to separate groups of seating within six (6) feet;

23, Limiting party size at tables to no more than six (6) patrons;

24.Where practical, considering a reservations-only business
model or call-ahead seating;

25. Posting signage on entrances that no one with Symptoms of
COVID-19 is permitted in the facility;

26.Where practicable, physical barriers such as partitions or
Plexiglas at registers should be used;

Page 24 of 54

ORDERED:

27.Using technological solutions where possible to reduce
person-to-person interaction: mobile ordering, mobile access
to menus to plan, text on arrival for seating, and contactless
payment options;

28.Providing Hand Sanitizer for use by patrons, including
contactless hand sanitizing stations when available;

29. Preventing patrons from congregating on bar premises or the
curtilage thereof; designing a process to ensure patron
separation that can include floor markings or outdoor
distancing;

30.If possible, using an exit from the facility separate from the
entrance;

31. Marking ingress/egress to and from restrooms to establish
paths that mitigate proximity for patrons and Workers;

32. Preventing activities that enable close human contact;

33. Establishing pathways for patrons’ ingress and egress and
ensuring that they are clear and unobstructed;

34.Setting up hand sanitizing stations at every entrance to the
establishment and encouraging patrons to use Hand Sanitizer
upon entering;

35. Requiring Workers to wash or sanitize their hands upon
entering the establishment, and between interactions with
patrons; and

36. Sanitizing the bar regularly.

In the event that any Organization that qualifies as a bar shall also
qualify as any other type of Organization or event for which specific
operating requirements are set forth in this Section, titled “Industry,
Commerce, & Organizations,” Section IX titled “Sports & Live
Performance Venues,” or Section X titled “Conventions,” the
Organization shall adhere to the requirements of this provision for
Bars and the requirements for all other types of Organizations and
events for which it qualifies. In the event that any of said
requirements conflict, the requirements of this provision for Bars
shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above for non-
Critical Infrastructure, operators of amusement rides as defined by
Code Section 25-15-51, traveling carnivals, water parks, circuses,
and other temporary amusement rides operating during the
effective dates of this Order shall implement additional measures
to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1. Enforcing social distancing at all times;

2. Display signage and ground markers that encourage Social

Distancing;

Page 25 of 54

an TRY

co

10.
11.

12.

13.
14.

15.

16.

17.
. Removing any self-service items and have Workers provide

18

Increasing physical space between Workers and patrons;
Limiting contact between Workers and patrons;
Providing online training programs for workers instructing
them on how to stay safe and keep patrons safe;
Providing workers with Personal Protective Equipment, as
appropriate;
Requiring Workers to wear face coverings at all times;
Other than at water parks, encouraging patrons to wear face
coverings at all times when they are not experiencing a ride
or an attraction;
Utilizing touch-free or contactless payment options when
possible;
Limiting occupancy on the premises to allow for patrons to
abide by the Gathering ban at all times;
Prohibiting parties from entering when at least one patron
in the party is exhibiting Symptoms of COVID-19;
Communicating new operational procedures to guests prior
to arrival, on the attraction’s website, and through social
media to establish expectations and instill confidence,
including:

i. Identifying Symptoms of COVID-19;

ii. Notifying patrons that if anyone in their party is
experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19, the entire
party will be denied entry;

iii. Directives on wearing masks/ face coverings for
employees and guests;

iv. Social Distancing guidelines;

v. Capacity limits that facilitate Social Distancing;

vi. Enhanced cleaning and sanitization protocols;

vii. Use of temperature checks/thermal scanning
cameras; and

viii. Procedures for isolating and seeking medical
assistance for a patron or worker who may become ill
on the premises.

Establishing uniform entrances where patrons are screened;

Prohibiting entrance of patrons exhibiting Symptoms of

COVID-19;

Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons that they

cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19,

have Symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a person

that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the past

fourteen (14) days and having not yet completed the Post-

Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

Implementing processes to perform contactless security

checks, as appropriate;

Reducing face-to-face purchase transactions when possible;

Page 26 of 54

such items to patrons directly wherever practicable;

19.Placing acrylic or other types of barriers or screens,
including safety goggles, in areas where there is frequent
patron-Worker contact;

20. Placing signs that remind patrons to adhere to the
guidelines published by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention to prevent the spread of COVID-19;

21. Requiring Workers to monitor queues and enforce Social
Distancing and prevent Gatherings;

22.Encouraging the use of Hand Sanitizer by patrons at the

entrance of the premises and the entrance to all ride or
attraction queues;

23.Cleaning and sanitizing the contact surfaces of any ride or

attraction regularly;

24.Reducing the number of patrons per ride or attraction in the

following manner:

i. For open-air rides where patrons are arranged in
rows, such as roller coasters, log flumes, train rides,
and similar types of rides and attractions, only
allowing persons in the same party to be seated on the
same row;

ii. For open-air rides where patrons are arranged in
groups, such as free-fall rides, rafting rides, and other
similar types of rides and attractions, seating persons
in the same party adjacent to each other and
providing at least six (6) feet between non-
cohabitating groups or patrons;

iii. | For open-air rides where patrons are seated in cars,
such as bumper cars, sky lifts, classic Ferris wheels,
swing rides, and similar types of rides and
attractions, only allowing persons in the same party
to be seated together in each car;

iv. For open-air rides where patrons are seated in an
interspersed manner, such as carousels and similar
types of rides and attractions, seating patrons so that
there is at least six (6) feet between persons not in the
same party;

v.  Forclosed car rides, such as monorails, gondola-style
Ferris wheels, and similar types of rides and
attractions, only allowing persons in the same party
to be seated together in each car or unit; and

vi. For self-guided rides where enforcing Social
Distancing is not practicable and there are surfaces
subject to multiple contacts, such as fun houses, ball
pits, jump-arounds, haunted houses, and similar
types of rides and attractions, closing such rides or
attractions unless Social Distancing can be enforced

Page 27 of 54

and the ride or attraction can be sanitized between
groups of participants.
25.Reconfiguring queues so that patrons must adhere to Social
Distancing while waiting on a ride or attraction;

26.Recognizing that it may not be possible to open some
attractions if Social Distancing and sanitation protocols
cannot be implemented;

27. Reconfiguring locker arrangements or availability to allow
for Social Distancing;

28. Reconfiguring seating and lounge areas to allow for Social
Distancing;

29. Checking restrooms regularly, cleaning and sanitizing
based on the frequency of use, and ensuring adequate
supply of soap and paper towels at all times;

30. Food service areas must adhere to the same

guidelines set forth in Section IV of this Order, titled
"Restaurants & Dining Services;” and

31. Water parks and water amusement rides shall implement

the following additional measures:
i. Ensuring pool water is treated in accordance with
Georgia Department of Public Health and applicable
county pool ordinance or Boards of Health
regulations;
ii. Utilizing a timed or controlled entry system to limit
patron distancing in pools to allow for Social
| Distancing and have Workers regularly monitor
| capacity;
| iii. | Not opening wave pools and other rides or attractions
where capacity, wave thrust, and Social Distancing
cannot be effectively managed; and
iv. Following applicable guidance from the Georgia
Department of Public Health and Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention on managing public swimming
pools.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That in instances where persons are working outdoors without
regular contact with other persons, such as delivery services,
contractors, landscape businesses, and agricultural industry
services, such persons shall only be required to practice Social
Distancing and implement sanitation processes as necessary and
practicable.

Page 28 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

VI. HEALTHCARE

IT IS FURTHER

That any person, service, or entity delivering healthcare during the
effective dates of this Order shall adhere to the guidelines listed in
Section V for Critical Infrastructure in addition to the guidelines
listed in this Section.

IT IS FURTHER

That to the extent possible, hospitals, health care institutions,
medical facilities, and Long-Term Care Facilities should offer in-
room dining.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above for Critical
Infrastructure, Long-Term Care Facilities shall implement
additional measures and protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-
19. Such measures and protocols shall include:

1. Adhere to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and Georgia
Department of Public Health guidance;

2. Adopt an infectious disease transfer communication
protocol with local hospitals. The protocol should use the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention transfer tool:
https://www.cdc.gov/HAI/toolkits/InterfacilityTransfer
CommunicationForm11-2010.pdf and should be
developed in collaboration with hospital infection
prevention employees;

3. A positive COVID-19 test result should not be the sole
foundation of a decision to send a resident to a hospital for
treatment. Any transfers should be based on the medical
necessity for hospitalization, including need for
respiratory assistance or other emergent medical
needs. All testing strategies should be made in
consultation with and facilitated by Georgia Department
of Public Health Epidemiology staff;

4. Prohibit all visitors and non-essential personnel, except as
permitted by Section II of this Order, titled “Sheltering in
Place,” and as permitted by the State of Georgia
Department of Public Health’s Long-Term Care Facilities
Reopening Guidance Administrative Order for Long-Term
Care Facilities other than community living arrangements
or community integration homes;

Page 29 of 54

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Cancel all internal and external group activities as
practicable, except for activities permitted by the State of
Georgia Department of Public Health’s Long-Term Care
Facilities Reopening Guidance Administrative Order for
Long-Term Care Facilities other than community living
arrangements or community integration homes;

Establish appropriate social distancing infrastructure for
residents and employees;

Require all employees to practice frequent hand hygiene,
including washing hands for at least 20 seconds with
antibacterial or antimicrobial soap or using hand sanitizer
with at least 70% isopropyl alcohol after any interaction
with a resident;

Implement active screening of residents for Symptoms of
COVID-19;

Screen all employees prior to beginning their shift for
Symptoms of COVID-19;

Establish a mechanism for Workers who work in multiple
locations to report any exposure to a COVID-19 case in
another facility;

To the extent feasible, require Workers to follow the Post-
Exposure Quarantine Protocol after exposure due to
unmitigated close contact with a positive COVID-19 case.
If necessary, to ensure adequate staffing, Workers may
continue to work in consultation with the Georgia
Department of Public Health or their workplace
occupational health program so long as they are
asymptomatic and correctly wear personal protective
equipment as required by the Department while on duty;
Implement universal and correct use of face masks or face
coverings for all employees and require the use of
additional Personal Protective Equipment by Workers as
needed, but particularly when interacting with residents
with Symptoms of COVID-19;

Use Standard, Contact, and Droplet Precautions with eye
protection when caring for residents with undiagnosed
respiratory infection, unless the suspected diagnosis
requires Airborne Precautions (e.g., tuberculosis);

Utilize EPA-registered List N, hospital-grade disinfectants
for frequent cleaning of high-touch surfaces and shared
resident-care equipment;

To the extent feasible, cohort residents with Symptoms of
COVID-19, including dedicating healthcare personnel to
work only on affected units; and

To the extent feasible, designate an area in the facility to
quarantine patients upon admission for evaluation of their
COVID-19 status.

Page 30 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Public Health is authorized to issue
directives under this Order to monitor, treat, prevent, reduce the
spread of, and suppress COVID-19 in Long-Term Care Facilities
throughout Georgia. These directives shall be coordinated among the
Georgia Department of Public Health, Georgia National Guard, and
the Georgia Department of Community Health.

IT IS FURTHER

That compliance with Georgia Department of Public Health, Georgia
Department of Community Health, and Georgia National Guard
directives and guidance shall be mandatory for all Long-Term Care
Facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51(d)(4.1), in the event of
noncompliance by a Long-Term Care Facility with this Order or a
directive issued subject to this Order, the Georgia Department of
Public Health may, after taking reasonable steps to provide notice
and an opportunity to comply, assume management and supervision
of the Facility.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard and the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety shall provide
available resources as requested to assist the Department of Public
Health in the enforcement of all applicable provisions of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Composite Board of Professional Counselors, Social
Workers, and Marriage and Family Therapists shall be authorized to
issue temporary authorization to practice within the State of Georgia
to practitioners who apply for temporary authorization and are
currently licensed in good standing as a professional counselor,
social worker, or marriage and family therapist by an equivalent
board in another state for the purpose of providing telemental health
service to said practitioner’s existing patient(s) that have relocated to
Georgia as a result of COVID-19. Guidelines for the requirements
and procedure for the application of the temporary authorization
shall be issued by the Georgia Composite Board of Professional
Counselors, Social Workers, and Marriage and Family Therapists.
Code Section 43-10A-7, Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R. 135-3-.01 et seq., Ga.

Page 31 0f 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Comp R. & Regs. R. 135-5-.01 et seq., and Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R.
135-11-.01 shall be suspended only to the extent that they would
prohibit the issuance of such temporary authorization. This
provision shall become effective upon signature and shall expire at
the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed,
this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health
State of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That, pursuant to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
guidance, any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which limits
the types of vaccines pharmacists or nurses may administer is hereby
suspended to the extent necessary to allow pharmacists and nurses
to administer a COVID-19 vaccination, with or without a vaccine
protocol agreement. Such administration shall be in accordance with
the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
guidelines. This provision shall become effective upon signature and
shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency
declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health
State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is
renewed, this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such state of emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which requires
vaccine recipients to remain under the observation of the
administering pharmacist or nurse for a period of not less than 15
minutes immediately subsequent to the administration of the
vaccine is hereby suspended to the extent necessary to allow any
pharmacist or nurse to observe COVID-19 vaccine recipients for a
period of not less than 15 minutes immediately subsequent to the
administration of a COVID-19 vaccine. This provision shall become
effective upon signature and shall expire at the conclusion of the
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No.
03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this provision of this
Order shall carry forward with the Public Health State of Emergency
until such state of emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed
by the Governor.

Page 32 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws of regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which prohibits a
pharmacist or nurse from administering a vaccine to a patient while
the patient remains in his or her vehicle is hereby suspended to the
extent necessary to allow a pharmacist or nurse to administer a
COVID-19 vaccine to a patient while the patient remains in his or her
vehicle. This provision shall become effective upon signature and
shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency
declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health
State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is
renewed, this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such state of emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws of regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 26-4-82(e) and Ga. Comp R. & Regs.
R. 480-15-.03(f), which limits the number of pharmacy interns, as
defined by Code Section 26-4-5(19), that a pharmacist may be
assisted by and directly supervise is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow a pharmacist to be assisted by and directly
supervise more than one (1) pharmacy intern at a time for the limited
purpose of supporting COVID-19 vaccination efforts. This provision
shall become effective upon signature and shall expire at the
conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed,
this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health
State of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Sections 43-11-1 and 43-11-17, which
prohibits licensed dentists, as defined by Code Section 43-11-1(0),
from administering vaccinations is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow licensed dentists to administer a COVID-19
vaccination for the limited purpose of providing COVID-19 vaccine
administration in partnership with the Georgia Department of Public
Health. Any such vaccine administration shall be in accordance with
the Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines. This provision
shall become effective upon signature and shall expire at the
conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in

Page 33 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed,
this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health
State of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That the requirement of the laws of regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-2-772 and Ga. Comp R.
& Regs. R. 511-5-8.01 et seq., that county boards of health shall
provide scoliosis screenings of public school children in coordination
with local boards of education is hereby waived for the 2020-2021
school year. This provision shall become effective upon signature
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No.
03.14.20.01 is renewed, this provision of this Order shall carry
forward with the Public Health State of Emergency until such state
of emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

VII. EDUCATION & CHILDREN
IT IS FURTHER

That the State Board of Education shall provide rules, regulations,
and guidance for the operation of public elementary and secondary
schools for local boards of education relying on Code Section 20-2-
168(c)(2) to depart from a strict interpretation of the definition of
“school year,” “school month,” or “school day.” Such rules,
regulations, and guidance promulgated by the State Board of
Education shall adhere to, and shall not conflict with, guidance
issued by the Georgia State Health Officer, the Georgia Department
of Public Health, and the American Academy of Pediatrics.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall prevent any school, technical school,
college, or university from requiring faculty and Workers to attend
meetings or other necessary activities at a school or facility for the
purpose of supporting distance learning, research, administration,
maintenance, or preparation for the 2020-2021 school year.

Page 34 of 54

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That because of the limited resources of school districts in this state,
schools and school districts shall not be required to comply with the
ban on Gatherings, but during the effective dates of this Order, such
schools and school districts shall implement additional measures
to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among Workers and students
while present on school campuses. Such measures shall include:

1.

2.

10.

11.

12.

13.

Screening and evaluating Workers and students who exhibit
Symptoms of COVID-19;

Requiring Workers and students who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19 to not report to school and to seek medical
attention;

As appropriate and practicable at the discretion of the local
school board or applicable board of directors, requiring
Workers and students to take mitigating steps to prevent the
spread of COVID-19, which may include requiring Workers
and students to wear face masks or face coverings while
indoors on school property during school hours;

As practicable, enforcing social distancing protocol before,
during, between, and after all athletic, educational, musical,
and other group activities—especially when such activities
require students to exercise, sing, or play a brass or woodwind
instrument;

As practicable, reducing class sizes, or moving classes into
larger or more open spaces such as gymnasiums, stadiums,
arenas, or outdoor areas to better facilitate social distancing
measures;

Ensuring ventilation systems operate properly and increasing
circulation and purification of air within facilities as
practicable;

Enhancing sanitation of the school as appropriate;
Disinfecting common surfaces regularly;

Encouraging handwashing or sanitation by Workers and
students at appropriate places within the school;

Permitting students and Workers to take breaks and lunch
outside, in their personal study space, workspace, or in such
other areas where proper Social Distancing is attainable;
Holding all meetings and conferences virtually, whenever
possible;

Discouraging handshaking and other unnecessary person-to-
person contact; and

Placing notices that encourage hand hygiene at the entrance
to the school and in other areas where they are likely to be
seen.

Page 35 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519(27), that
graduates of eligible high schools, as defined by Code Section 20-3-
519(6), receive a qualifying standardized college admission test score
prior to high school graduation in order to qualify as a Zell Miller
Scholarship Student is hereby suspended for all such students that
have graduated or will graduate high school in the year 2020. The
Georgia Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a)
extend the deadline by which said students must submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score for purposes of Zell Miller
Scholarship eligibility to June 30, 2021; (b) to establish rules and
procedures for retroactively awarding Zell Miller Scholarships to
those students who submit a qualifying standardized college
admission test score in accordance with the extended deadline
provided that they met any applicable Zell Miller Scholarship
checkpoint requirements; and (c) to establish rules and procedures
whereunder HOPE scholarship funds issued to incoming freshman
students that later qualify for the Zell Miller Scholarship in
accordance with the extended deadline provided for herein shall be
returned.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519(27), that
graduates of ineligible high schools, meaning ones that do not meet
the definition of Code Section 20-3-519(6), or graduates of home
study programs meeting the requirements of Code Section 20-2-
690(c) must receive a qualifying standardized college admission test
score prior to high school graduation or home study completion in
order to qualify as Zell Miller Scholarship Students is hereby
suspended for all such students that graduate or complete home
study between March 14, 2020 and December 31, 2020. The Georgia
Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the
deadline by which said students must submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score for purposes of Zell Miller
Scholarship eligibility to June 30, 2021; and (b) to establish rules and
procedures for retroactively awarding Zell Miller Scholarships to
those students who submit a qualifying standardized college
admission test score in accordance with the extended deadline
provided that they met any applicable Zell Miller Scholarship
checkpoint requirements.

Page 36 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519.2, that graduates
of ineligible high schools, meaning those that do not meet the
definition of Code Section 20-3-519(6), students that completed
home study programs meeting the requirements of Code Section 20-
2-690(c), or recipients of general education development (GED)
diplomas receive a score in the seventy-fifth percentile or higher
nationally on a standardized college admission test prior to
graduation, home study completion, or earning the GED in order to
qualify for a HOPE Scholarship is hereby suspended for all such
students that graduate, complete home study, or earn a GED
between March 14, 2020 and December 31, 2020. The Georgia
Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the
deadline by which said students must submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score for purposes of HOPE
Scholarship eligibility to June 30, 2021; and (b) to establish rules and
procedures for retroactively awarding HOPE Scholarships to those
students who submit a qualifying standardized college admission
test score in accordance with the extended deadline provided that
they met any applicable HOPE Scholarship checkpoint
requirements.

IT IS FURTHER

That all Child Care Learning Centers and Family Child Learning
Homes under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Department of Early
Care and Learning shall maintain Worker-Child Ratios set forth by
the Georgia Department of Early Care and Learning.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the requirements for Organizations that are not
Critical Infrastructure set forth in Section V above and the standard.
hygiene, sanitation, and disinfection licensing rules promulgated by
the Georgia Department of Early Care and Learning, all Childcare
Facilities that operate during the effective dates of this Order shall
implement additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Such measures shall include the following:
1. Screening and evaluating all children prior to them entering
the classroom for Symptoms of COVID-19;
2. Prohibiting children from entering a classroom if they exhibit
any Symptoms of COVID-19;
3. Prohibiting unnecessary visitors;
4. Providing meals in classrooms rather than in congregated or
communal settings where possible;

Page 37 of 54

ORDERED:

10.

Restricting families’ access to the front door of the facility or
the door of their respective child’s classroom only;

Surfaces and objects that are frequently touched must be
sanitized regularly, including, but not limited to, toys, games,
and objects or surfaces not ordinarily cleaned daily;

Toys that children have placed in their mouths or that are
otherwise contaminated by body secretions or excretions
should be set aside until they are cleaned by hand by a person
wearing gloves;

Items that need to be cleaned should be set aside in a dish pan
with soapy water or in a separate container marked for soiled
toys;

Only bedding (sheets, pillows, blankets, and sleeping bags)
that can be washed may be used. Each child’s bedding must
be kept separate and, to the extent practicable, should be
stored in individually labeled bins, cubbies, or bags. Cots and
mats should be labeled for each child and any bedding that
touches a child’s skin should be cleaned regularly; and
Workers should sign children in and out of the facility for
families if a computer or keypad system inside the facility is
used. If a tablet located outside the facility is used by families
during drop-off and pick-up, the tablet must be disinfected
regularly. If a paper sign-in system is used for sign-in, writing
utensils should be sanitized regularly if families are permitted
to sign children in themselves.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements for non-Critical
Infrastructure above, Camps shall implement additional measures
to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:

1.

Placing signage at any entrance to instruct Campers that they
cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19,
have exhibited Symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a
person that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the
past fourteen (14) days and have not completed the Post-
Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility to
instruct Campers of the enhanced sanitation procedures,
Social Distancing requirements, and other instructions and
limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

Screening Campers at drop-off and preventing any Camper
from entering that exhibits Symptoms of COVID-19;
Requiring that any persons exhibiting Symptoms of COVID-
19 at any time while at the Camp to be separated from the

Page 38 of 54

10.

11.
12.

13.
14.
15.

16.

17.
18.

19.

group immediately and requiring such person to leave the
Camp facility as soon as practicable;

Prohibiting any Worker or Camper that has stayed home sick,
been prevented from entering Camp due to Symptoms of
COVID-19, or been sent home during Camp due to Symptoms
of COVID-19 from attending Camp again until they have
either had a negative COVID-19 test or have been fever and
fever medication free for seventy-two (72) hours, other
Symptoms of COVID-19 have improved, and at least ten (10)
days have passed since Symptoms of COVID-19 first
appeared;

Requiring parents dropping-off and picking-up Campers to
remain in their vehicles;

Utilizing contactless forms of Camper check-in and check-out;
Implementing staggered drop-off and pick-up times, with
specific times for each group of Campers, if practicable;
Providing Hand Sanitizer to Campers as soon as practicable
upon drop-off;

Prohibiting unnecessary visitors to Camp activities and
facilities;

Discontinuing Camp tours;

Providing training to Workers on how to identify Symptoms
of COVID-19 in Campers, the proper processes for removing
a potentially ill Camper, and the infection mitigation
procedures to perform in such an event;

Providing an isolation area for sick Workers or Campers;

To the extent possible, keeping the same Workers and
Campers in the same group for the duration of the Camp;
Enforcing Social Distancing between groups, prohibiting
Gatherings, and prohibiting congregation among Campers
belonging to different groups;

Providing a separate designated space for each Camper to
store personal belongings throughout the duration of the
Camp;

Sanitizing Camp equipment regularly;

If swimming facilities are available, allowing each group to
swim only once per day and staggering swimming times to
avoid crowding at the swimming facilities;

If Camp facilities are also open to other patrons, prohibiting
contact between Campers and the facility’s other patrons and
requiring sanitization before Camp use of any such shared
facilities;

20. Providing Hand Sanitizer stations for Campers and requiring

21.

regular use;
Requiring Campers to wash or sanitize their hands during
each group restroom break, snack break, and meal break;

Page 39 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

22.For day Camps, if possible, requiring Campers to bring their
own lunch and snacks with them to Camp each day, with all
such food items being in a sealed lunch bag marked with the
Camper’s name;

23.Requiring all dining facilities to follow the criteria for
restaurant dine-in services set forth in Section IV herein to the
extent practicable;

24.If Camp vehicles are used for transporting Campers to and
from on-site or off-site activities, requiring Workers to
sanitize each vehicle regularly;

25. Requiring Workers to clean and sanitize bathrooms and all
frequently touched surfaces regularly ;

26. Providing masks or other Personal Protective Equipment to
Workers as available and appropriate to the function and
location of Workers within the camp facility; and

27. Providing masks or other Personal Protective Equipment to
Campers as available and appropriate to the activity and
location of Campers within the camp facility.

IT 1S FURTHER

That a Camper or Worker at a Camp with known exposure to COVID-
19 shall not be allowed access to any Camp, including any facilities or
activities, until they have completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine
Protocol.

IT IS FURTHER

That Code Section 15-11-2(10) relating to the definition of “child” is
suspended for the limited purpose of ensuring that persons in the
care of the Georgia Division of Family & Children Services who age
out of the definition of “child” during the Public Health State of
Emergency shall be eligible to remain in their placement and
continue to receive services for a duration of ninety (90) days
following the termination of the Public Health State of Emergency or
any extension thereof. This suspension shall apply to Code Section
15-11-2(10), effective until July 1, 2020, and upon expiration to Code
Section 15-11-2(10), effective July 1, 2020. Any Georgia Division of
Family & Children Services policies shall also align with this
provision.

IT IS FURTHER
That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any custodial arrangements created pursuant to the laws or

constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the United
States, nor shall any person use any provision of this Order as a

Page 40 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

defense to an action in violation of a custodial arrangement by any
court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of this State or the
laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER
To the extent that any provision of Section VII of this Order, titled
“Education & Children,” directly conflicts with any provision of

Section VIII of this Order, titled “Governments,” the provision in
Section VII shall control. -

VIII. GOVERNMENTS

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of Code Section 48-5-311(e)(6A), “in-person”
appearances before county boards of equalization may occur via
remote communications, including, but not limited to, video
teleconference. This provision shall be implemented consistent with
Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 560-11-12-.02, which requires hearings
before county boards of equalization to “only be as formal as is
necessary to preserve order and be compatible with the principles of
justice.” Further, this provision does not abrogate the requirement
that county boards of equalization comply with the Georgia Open
Meetings Act. Further, decisions of county boards of equalization
may be transmitted electronically if all parties consent at the time of
the hearing.

IT IS FURTHER

That any purported requirement under the laws of this state
requiring original signatures and raised corporate seals related to
construction surety bonds required under Code Sections 13-10-40-
65, 32-2-70, 36-91-1, 36-91-2, 36-91-50 and 36-91-70-93 and
commercial surety bonds required or permitted under numerous
other statutes are suspended for the limited purpose of providing
that public procurement officers shall accept electronic signatures
and electronic corporate seals as provided by the provisions of Code
Sections 10-12-2 et seg. and 33-24-14 and any construction surety
bond or commercial surety bond may be executed electronically if all
the following requirements are met:

1. The document is notarized pursuant to the requirements of
Executive Order 04.09.20.01; and

2. If requested by the procurement officer, the original shall
be provided within seven (7) business days.

Page 41 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the requirements of Code Section 36-70-27 and 50-8-8 are
hereby suspended to the extent that they would prevent local
governments from being eligible to receive state funding for
expenditures made during the current Public Health State of
Emergency related to the prevention, treatment, or mitigation of
COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-28, county and municipal
governments are authorized and empowered to make, amend, and
rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as may be necessary for
emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying
out of this Order, but such orders, rules, and regulations shall not be
inconsistent with this Order or any other orders, rules, or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a
power derived from the Public Health State of Emergency
declaration. For the purpose of this provision, orders, rules, and
regulations that are promulgated by county and municipal
governments that are more or less restrictive than the terms of this
Order shall be considered inconsistent with this Order, unless such
provision, order, rule, or regulation is otherwise expressly permitted
by the terms of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-28, other than orders issued
pursuant to the authority of Code Section 38-3-60 et seq., any state,
county, or municipal law, order, ordinance, rule, or regulation that
requires persons to wear face coverings, masks, face shields, or any
other Personal Protective Equipment while in places of public
accommodation or on public property are suspended to the extent
that they are more restrictive than this Executive Order or any such
law, order, ordinance, rule, or regulation expressly permitted by this
Executive Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That municipalities, counties, and other governmental entities
located in counties that have reached the Threshold Requirement are
hereby permitted to impose a Local Option Face Covering
Requirement; however, local governmental entities are not required
to impose a Local Option Face Covering Requirement even if the
Threshold Requirement is reached.

Page 42 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

If a local government entity meets the Threshold Requirement and
chooses to impose a Local Option Face Covering Requirement, such
Local Option Face Covering Requirement must comply with the
following:

1.

The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not be
applied to individuals who are eating or drinking, those who
have difficulty donning or removing a face mask or face
covering without assistance, those who have a bona fide
religious objection to wearing a face mask or face covering, or
those who have a bona fide medical reason not to wear a face
mask or face covering;

The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not give
rise to any fines, fees, penalties (criminal or otherwise) or
other cause of action against any private Organization;

The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not give
rise to any fines, fees, or penalties in excess of fifty dollars
($50.00) against any person per offense, nor shall it be
punishable by imprisonment for any term;

Enforcement measures may only be taken against individuals.
Owners, directors, officers, or agents of any Organization may
not be held liable for the failure of their customers to comply
with any Local Option Face Covering Requirement;

The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not be
enforced at any Polling Place, as defined under Code Section
21-2-2(27), and no individual shall be denied ingress or egress
to or from a Polling Place for failure to wear a face covering or
face mask;

The Local Option Face Covering Requirement cannot be
enforced against individuals on residential property; and

The Local Option Face Covering Requirement may be
enforced against individuals on private property where the
owner or occupant of the property consents to enforcement.
Organizations may be required to post reasonable public
notice of a Local Option Face Covering Requirement and state
whether such Organization consents to enforcement or does
not consent to enforcement of such requirement on its

property.

IT IS FURTHER

Local government entities who choose to impose a Local Option Face
Covering Requirement shall warn noncompliant individuals about
the health risks posed by not wearing a face mask or face covering
prior to issuing any citation and shall make good faith, reasonable
efforts to distribute free masks in their jurisdictions to individuals

Page 43 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

who cannot afford a face mask or face covering. A person who is
found in violation of any Local Option Face Covering Requirement
and who cannot afford a face mask or face covering shall be provided
one at the municipality, county, or other governmental entity’s
expense.

IT IS FURTHER

That municipalities, counties, and other government entities shall
have the authority to control terms of entry onto property owned or
leased by the municipality, county, or other government authority,
board, bureau, or commission regardless of whether the Threshold
Requirement is met. Controlling terms of entry may include
requiring employees or other individuals present on municipality,
county, or other government authority, board, bureau, or
commission’s owned or leased property to wear a face mask or face
covering; however, no individual shall be denied ingress or egress to
or from a Polling Place, as defined under Code Section 21-2-2(27),
for failure to wear a face covering or face mask.

IT IS FURTHER

That for any weapons carry license or renewal license that expires
during the Public Health State of Emergency, the application for
renewal of such weapons carry license or renewal license made
pursuant to Code Section 16-11-129 shall be considered to be for a
renewal license if the holder of such weapons carry license or renewal
license applies within 120 days after the expiration date on the face
of license.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 40-5-21.1, that limits the time period
for which a noncitizen who holds a Georgia driver’s license or
identification card may be issued a temporary driving permit or
identification card to 120 days from the date of expiration of his or
her valid driver’s license or identification card is hereby suspended
to the extent necessary to allow noncitizen holders of a Georgia
driver’s license or identification card, whose driver’s license or
identification card expired on or after March 14, 2020, who have
already been issued the 120 day temporary driving permit or
identification card permitted under Code Section 40-5-21.1, and have
filed, or on whose behalf has been filed, a request for an extension
with the United States Department of Homeland Security, or similar
such federal issuing agency, for time to remain lawfully within the
United States and said request is still pending, to apply to the Georgia

Page 44 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Department of Driver Services for one or more additional 120 day
temporary driving permits or identification cards. Any such
temporary driving permit or identification card shall be issued in
accordance with existing procedures established by the Georgia
Department of Driver Services and in the sole discretion of the
Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Driver Services. The
Georgia Department of Driver Services shall be authorized to issue
additional guidelines and procedures for the application and
issuance of said temporary driving permits and identification cards
as needed. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or
otherwise alter any existing identity or lawful status verification
requirements established by the Georgia Department of Driver
Services to comply with federal REAL ID requirements._

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall relieve municipalities, counties, or
other local government entities from the obligations set forth under
Georgia law, including but not limited to Code Sections 9-13-11, 9-
13-160 et seq., 48-4-3, and 15-16-10, to conduct public auctions
through statutory levy processes and otherwise enforce writs of fieri
facias.

IT IS FURTHER

That the operation of Critical Infrastructure shall not be impeded by
county, municipal, or local ordinance.

IX. SPORTS & LIVE PERFORMANCE VENUES

IT IS FURTHER

That drive-in performances where patrons attend a live performance
while remaining in an automobile or in a restricted area immediately
surrounding an automobile shall not be subject to this Section and
shall adhere to the guidelines for non-Critical Infrastructure.

IT IS FURTHER

That Live Performance Venues shall operate pursuant to the
guidelines for non-Critical Infrastructure if their operation does not
include granting members of the public a license to be present at the
Live Performance Venue for a performance of any kind. Examples of
this type of activity may include, but are not limited to, recording
sessions for artists, live stream performances, practices, fanless
competitions, and rehearsals. Free events and invitations to

Page 45 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

members of the public to attend a non-ticketed activity or event at a
Live Performance Venue shall adhere to the applicable Tier
guidelines for the venue’s size.

IT IS FURTHER

That events held at Live Performance Venues shall be classified in
tiers based upon the fire code capacity of the venue. Tier I shall
include venues that can host 999 or fewer persons. Tier II shall
include venues that can host between 1,000 and 4,999 persons. Tier
III shall include venues that can host 5,000 or more persons. The
calculation of the total number of persons shall include all persons,
including Workers, that are present in a Live Performance Venue.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements for non-Critical
Infrastructure, all Tier I Live Performance Venues shall implement
additional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. All live
performance venues are strongly encouraged to adopt additional
measures to those required below that are tailored to the specific
nature of the type of performance venue and events hosted. Such
measures shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

1. Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons and
performers that they cannot enter if they have been diagnosed
with COVID-19, have exhibited Symptoms of COVID-19, or
had contact with a person that has or is suspected to have
COVID-19 within the past fourteen (14) days and have not
completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

2. Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility
providing information regarding enhanced sanitation
procedures, Social Distancing requirements, and other
instructions and limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

3. Requiring all Workers who have frequent contact with
patrons to wear a face covering while at the facility, provided,
however, that such Workers shall be permitted to remove
their face coverings while eating and drinking or if due to
warm weather or other extenuating circumstances the face
covering is causing difficulty breathing;

4. Providing other Personal Protective Equipment to Workers as
available and appropriate to the function and location of
Workers within the facility;

5. To the extent practicable, screening all individuals at
entrances and preventing any person from entering that
exhibits Symptoms of COVID-19;

6. Requiring that all patrons that begin exhibiting or
experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19 at any time while at the

Page 46 of 54

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.
18.

19.

Live Performance Venue to leave the Live Performance Venue
as soon as practicable; however, if the patron cannot
immediately leave, providing an isolation area or areas for
individuals experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19;

Providing training to Workers on how to identify Symptoms
of COVID-19 in any individuals present, the proper processes
for assisting a potentially ill patron with exiting the facility,
and the appropriate infection mitigation procedures to
perform in such an event;

To the extent practicable, utilizing contactless parking
systems, ticket-taking, ticket purchase, will-call, check-in,
check-out, security checks, and/or sales;

To the extent practicable, reduce the need for patrons to
traverse the facility by utilizing electronic ordering and
payment for concessions and other products and services and
having Workers deliver concessions;

To the extent practicable, utilizing physical barriers such as
partitions or Plexiglas at ticket counters, concession stands,
and points of sale;

To the extent practicable, implementing additional points of
sale for concession stands to reduce the number of patrons
waiting in lines;

Limiting the number of individuals permitted in on-site
stores, museums, suites, clubs, conference rooms, private
rooms, or boxes to enforce adherence to proper Social
Distancing protocol;

Implementing staggered entry and exit times or systems for
patrons by using virtual queue systems or grouping patrons
by ticket level, seating section, or other variable;

To the extent practicable, implementing assigned entrance
and exit portals, assigned concession stands, and assigned
restrooms for patrons grouped by ticket level, seating section,
or other variable;

To the extent practicable, requiring an adequate number of
empty seats or physical space between parties of patrons to
enforce proper Social Distancing protocol;

Providing ushers to enforce social distancing protocol before,
during, and after the event, and to facilitate patrons’ entrance
and exit in accordance with any grouped entrance and exit
times and portals;

Providing Hand Sanitizer for use by all individuals present,
using contactless hand sanitizing stations when available;
Reconfiguring queues so that patrons must adhere to Social
Distancing while waiting;

Sanitizing seats, armrests, handrails, doors, doorknobs, door
handles, PIN devices, and any other high contact surface in
the venue regularly;

Page 47 of 54

ORDERED:

20.To the extent practicable and consistent with league or
conference rules, for events with halftimes, breaks, or
intermissions, implementing extended times to allow for
controlled crowds during patron ingress and egress to and
from seating areas and restrooms;

21. If the facility is open to multiple groups of patrons or is
hosting multiple events at one time, prohibiting contact
between patrons of separate groups or events and requiring
sanitization of high contact surfaces within the facility
between each patron group use of any shared area;

22.Requiring all dining facilities to follow the criteria for
restaurant dine-in services set forth in Section IV of this
Executive Order titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”; and

23. Requiring Workers to check bathrooms regularly, cleaning
and sanitizing based on frequency of use, and always ensuring
adequate supply of hand sanitizer throughout times while
patrons, athletes, or performers are present at the facility in
addition to the regular cleaning schedule.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements for non-Critical
Infrastructure, all Tier II Live Performance Venues shall implement
the measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 provided for Tier I
Live Performance Venues, unless, independent guidelines are
developed in conjunction with the performer(s), and, if applicable,
the organizer(s), promoter(s), or sponsor(s) of the event. Such
guidelines shall not be inconsistent with the guidelines provided by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to prevent the spread
of COVID-19, and shall at least include the following:

1. Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons that
they cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with
COVID-19, have exhibited Symptoms of COVID-19, or had
contact with a person that has or is suspected to have
COVID-19 within the past fourteen (14) days and have not
completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

2. Requiring all Workers who have frequent contact with
patrons to wear a face covering while at the facility,
provided, however, that such Workers shall be permitted
to remove their face coverings while eating and drinking,
if due to warm weather, or because other extenuating
circumstances the face covering is causing difficulty
breathing;

3. Requiring that all individuals exhibiting or experiencing
Symptoms of COVID-19 at any time while at the Live
Performance Venue be isolated and leave the venue as
soon as practicable;

Page 48 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

4. Providing an isolation area or areas for individuals
experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19 that are unable to
immediately leave the Live Performance Venue;

5. If the facility is open to multiple groups of patrons or is
hosting multiple events at one time, prohibiting contact
between patrons of separate groups or events and
requiring sanitization of high contact surfaces within the
facility between each patron group use of any shared area;

6. Requiring Workers to check bathrooms regularly, cleaning
and sanitizing based on frequency of use, and always
ensuring adequate supply of hand sanitizer, and cleaning
and sanitizing all frequently touched surfaces regularly
throughout times while patrons are present at the facility;
and

7. Requiring all dining facilities to follow the criteria for
restaurant dine-in services set forth in Section IV of this
Executive Order titled “Restaurants & Dining Services.”

IT IS FURTHER

That all Tier III Live Performance Venues shall implement
measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 prior to hosting any
event. For sporting events, Tier III Live Performance Venues shall
implement measures consistent with the immediately following
paragraphs. For all other events, measures may be developed in
conjunction with the performer(s), and, if applicable, the
organizer(s), promoter(s), or sponsor(s) of the event. Such
guidelines shall not be inconsistent with the guidelines provided by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to prevent the spread
of COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That professional sports teams and professional sports organizations
that engage in practices, games, or other in-person operations during
the effective dates of this Executive Order shall operate solely
pursuant to the rules or guidelines that have been promulgated or
approved by the respective professional league of the sport.

IT IS FURTHER

That collegiate or high school sports teams and organizations that
engage in practices, games, or other in-person operations during the
effective dates of this Executive Order shall operate solely pursuant
to the rules or guidelines that have been promulgated or approved by
the applicable conference or association.

Page 49 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

All amateur sports teams and amateur sports organizations that
continue in-person operation during the effective dates of this
Executive Order shall adhere to the guidelines for non-Critical
Infrastructure organizations listed above.

IT IS FURTHER

Any previous executive order or departmental rule which would
prevent professional sports teams or organizations, collegiate sports
teams or organizations, high school sports teams or organizations, or
other amateur sports teams or organizations from operating in a
manner inconsistent with the above requirements is hereby
suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That venues hosting professional, collegiate, or high school sporting
events, practices, and games during the effective dates of this
Executive Order shalldo so solely pursuant to the rules or
guidelines that have been or will be promulgated or approved by the
applicable professional, collegiate, or high school sports league,
conference, or association.

X. CONVENTIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above for non-
Critical Infrastructure, Conventions operating during the effective
dates of this Order shall implement additional measures to prevent
the spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1. Placing signage at any entrance to instruct patrons that they
cannot enter if they have been diagnosed with COVID-19,
have exhibited Symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a
person that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the
past fourteen (14) days and have not completed the Post-
Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

2. Placing signage at any entrance and throughout the facility
providing information regarding enhanced _ sanitation
procedures, Social Distancing, and other instructions and
limitations, as applicable, set forth below;

3. Requiring all Workers who have frequent contact with
patrons to wear a face covering while at the facility, provided,

Page 50 of 54

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

however, that such Workers shall be permitted to remove
their face coverings while eating and drinking, if due to warm
weather, or because other extenuating circumstances the face
covering is causing difficulty breathing;

Providing other Personal Protective Equipment to Workers as
available and appropriate to the function and location of
Workers within the facility;

To the extent practicable, screening all individuals at
entrances and preventing any person from entering that
exhibits Symptoms of COVID-19;

Requiring that all individuals exhibiting or experiencing
Symptoms of COVID-19 at any time while at a Convention be
isolated and leave the facility as soon as practicable;
Providing training to Workers on how to identify Symptoms
of COVID-19 in any individuals present, the proper processes
for assisting a potentially ill individual with exiting the facility,
and the appropriate infection mitigation procedures to
perform in such an event;

Providing an isolation area or areas for individuals
experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19 that are unable to
immediately leave the Convention;

To the extent practicable, utilizing contactless parking
systems, registration, check-in, check-out, security checks,
coat/bag checks, and/or sales;

If transportation to or from Convention events and activities
is provided to patrons, to the extent practicable, conducting
all transportation in such a way that maintains Social
Distancing and regularly sanitizing the transportation
vehicles;

Providing Hand Sanitizer for use by all individuals present,
using contactless hand sanitizing stations when available;

To the extent practicable, utilizing physical barriers such as
partitions or Plexiglas at registration and check-in stations,
refreshment stations, and points of sale;

To the extent practicable, requiring pre-registration for all
seated events to be held as part of the Convention;
Implementing staggered registration and attendance times, as
practicable, for patrons by using virtual queue systems or
grouping patrons by name, registration level, or other
variable;

Reconfiguring all queues so that patrons must adhere to
Social Distancing while waiting, which may include floor
markings;

To the extent practicable, implementing one-way aisles to
guide patron traffic through large areas of booths;
Discouraging handshaking, hugging, and other unnecessary
person-to-person physical contact between patrons;

Page 51 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

18. Requiring all dining facilities to follow the criteria for
restaurant dine-in services set forth in Section IV of this
Executive Order titled “Restaurants & Dining Services”;

19. If the facility is open to multiple groups of patrons or is
hosting multiple events at one time, to the extent practicable,
prohibiting contact between patrons of separate events and
requiring sanitization of high contact surfaces within the
facility between each patron group use of any shared area; and

20.Requiring Workers to check bathrooms regularly, cleaning
and sanitizing based on frequency of use, and always ensuring
adequate supply of hand sanitizer, and cleaning and sanitizing
all frequently touched surfaces regularly throughout times
while patrons are present at the facility.

XI. ENFORCEMENT

IT IS FURTHER

That the state agencies with primary regulatory authority over the
entities listed in this Order and the Commissioner of the Department
of Public Safety shall provide resources as requested to assist in the
enforcement of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, any person who violates this
Order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Officials enforcing this Order
should take reasonable steps to provide notice prior to issuing a
citation or making an arrest. No provision of this Order shall limit
the ability of law enforcement officers to enforce the laws of this
State. Particularly, the provisions of Code Section 38-3-4 remain in
effect, and all law enforcement is authorized to enforce the Orders
issued pursuant to Title 38, Chapter 3.

IT IS FURTHER

That any law enforcement officer, after providing reasonable notice
and issuing at least two citations for violations of Code Section 38-3-
7, is authorized to mandate the closure of any Organization not in
compliance with this Order for a period not to extend beyond the
term of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Executive Order 04.02.20.01 and Code Section 38-
3-51, enforcement of any county or municipal ordinance or order that

Page 52 of 54

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

is more or less restrictive than this Order and is not otherwise
expressly permitted by the terms herein is hereby suspended.

XII. MISCELLANEOUS
IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any
Quarantine or Isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Department of Public Health shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER
This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that

the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

Page 53 of 54

IT IS FURTHER
ORDERED: The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the

scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

XIII. EFFECTIVE DATE & SIGNATURE

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

BS hb

GOVERNOR

This 26 day of February 2021.

Page 54 of 54
