THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

EMPOWERING A HEALTHY GEORGIA

On March 14, 2020, due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State of
Georgia, I issued Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01, declaring a Public
Health State of Emergency in Georgia; and

On March 14, 2020, I issued a Proclamation convening the General
Assembly of Georgia in special session on Monday 16, 2020 at 8:00
A.M. for the express purpose of concurring with or terminating the
Public Health State of Emergency in accordance with Code Section
38-3-51(a); and

The Georgia General Assembly met in special session and concurred.
with Executive Order 03.14.20.01 by joint resolution on March 16,
2020, thereby affirming the existence of a Public Health State of
Emergency and vesting me with the emergency powers enumerated
in Code Section 38-3-50 et seq.; and

Georgia law does not require that the General Assembly concur with
every rule, regulation, or order the Governor issues in response to a
Public Health State of Emergency; the law requires only that the
General Assembly concur with the initial existence of such a state of
emergency, and the Governor is thereafter charged with ongoing
management of a state of emergency; and

On April 8, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 13, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.08.20.02; and

On April 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency

until June 12, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 04.30.20.01; and

On May 28, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until July 12, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 05.28.20.01; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On June 29, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until August 11, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 06.29.20.01; and

On July 31, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until September 10, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 07.31.20.01;
and

On August 31, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until October 10, 2020 by issuing Executive Order 08.31.20.01; and

On September 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until November 9, 2020 by issuing Executive Order
09.30.20.01; and

On October 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until December 9, 2020 by issuing Executive Order
10.30.20.01; and

On November 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until January 8, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
11.30.20.01; and

On December 30, 2020, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until February 7, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
12.30.20.01; and

On January 29, 2021, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until March 7, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
01.29.21.01; and

On February 26, 2021, I renewed the Public Health State of
Emergency until April 6, 2021 by issuing Executive Order
02.26.21.01; and

On March 31, 2021, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until April 30, 2021 by issuing Executive Order 03.31.21.01; and

On April 23, 2021, I renewed the Public Health State of Emergency
until May 30, 2021 by issuing Executive Order 04.23.21.01; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

The Georgia Constitution, Art. ITI, § VI, Para. IV provides that no

local or special law can contravene a statewide law of general
applicability; and

Page 2 of 28

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[aJll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor” have the force and effect
of law; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with protecting the
citizens of this State, including during a state of emergency; and

The General Assembly has entrusted the authority to declare a state
of emergency to the Governor and vested him with the sole power to
direct and manage the statewide response to any such emergency, as
Code Section 45-12-30 provides that, “[w]hen, in his opinion, the
facts warrant, the Governor shall, by proclamation, declare that,
because of unlawful assemblage, violence, overt threats of violence,
or otherwise, a danger exists to the person or property of any citizen
or citizens of the state and that the peace and tranquility of the state
or of any area or political subdivision thereof is threatened, and
because thereof an emergency, with reference to said threats and
danger, exists. In all such cases, when the Governor shall issue his
proclamation he shall be and is further authorized, in coping with
said threats and danger, to order and direct any person, corporation,
association, or group of persons to do any act which would, in his
opinion, prevent danger to life, limb, or property or prevent a breach
of the peace; or he may order such person, corporation, association,
or group of persons to refrain from doing any act or thing which
would, in his opinion, endanger life, limb, or property or cause, or
tend to cause, a breach of the peace, or endanger the peace and good
order of society; and he shall have full power to enforce such order
or proclamation by appropriate means”; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
enforce all laws, rules, and regulations relating to emergency
management and to assume direct operational control of all civil
forces and helpers in the state; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)() vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Page 3 of 28

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

The Georgia Constitution, Art. IX, § 2, Para. III(c) grants the General
Assembly the ability to regulate, restrict, or limit the powers of local
governments by general law; and

To ensure the public’s safety and prevent confusion, it is necessary
for the State’s departments, agencies, and political subdivisions to
provide a coordinated response to support the Governor’s emergency
management rules, regulations, and orders; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(2) vests the Governor with the power to
utilize all available resources of the state government and of each
political subdivision of the state as reasonably necessary to cope with
the emergency or disaster, therefore providing the Governor with
emergency authority over all resources of every local government of
the State; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(3) establishes the Governor’s emergency
authority over the operation of state departments and agencies by
vesting the Governor with the power to transfer the direction,
personnel, or functions of state departments and agencies or units
thereof for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency
services; and

To ensure the Governor is equipped with all resources necessary to
respond to a public health state of emergency, the General Assembly
has vested him with the option to delegate expanded powers to the
Department of Public Health in such an event as Code Section 38-3-
514) provides that the Governor may direct the Department of
Public Health to coordinate all matters pertaining to the response of
the state to a public health emergency; and

Pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51(i), in Executive Order 03.14.20.01,
I instructed the Department of Public Health to coordinate with the
Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency to
take any action necessary to protect the public’s health, including,
without limitation:
(1) Planning and executing public health emergency assessments,
mitigation, preparedness response, and recovery for the state;
(2) Coordinating public health emergency responses between
state and local authorities;
(3) Establishing protocols to control the spread of COVID-19;
(4) Coordinating recovery operations and mitigation initiatives;
(5) Collaborating with appropriate federal government
authorities, elected officials of other states, private
organizations, or private sector companies;
(6) Organizing public information activities regarding the state’s
public health emergency response operations, including

Page 4 of 28

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

educating the public on prevention of the spread of COVID-19
based on Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s
guidelines and the best scientific evidence available;

(7) Providing special identification for public health personnel
involved in this Public Health State of Emergency;

(8) For all persons meeting the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s definition of a Person Under Investigation
(“PUI”), implementing a program of active monitoring, which
may include a risk assessment within twenty-four (24) hours
of learning that the person meets the PUI criteria and twice-
daily temperature checks for a period of at least fourteen (14)
days or until the PUI tests negative for COVID-19; and

(9) Implementing quarantine, isolation, and other necessary
public health interventions consistent with Code Sections 31-
12-4 and 38-3-51(i)(2) or as otherwise authorized by law.

Notwithstanding said broad instructions, the authority delegated to
the Department of Public Health is subject to the limitations of Code
Section 38-3-28(a), and such delegation did not lessen or relinquish
the Governor’s superior emergency management powers; and

Georgia law grants the Department of Public Health other duties and
authority for general and emergency disease prevention and control;
and

Code Sections 31-2A-4 and 31-12-4 vests the Department of Public
Health with the power to segregate and isolate certain individuals
with certain communicable diseases or conditions when said
individuals’ exposure to the general population is likely to endanger
the health of others; and

To ensure advance preparation for a public health emergency, the
Georgia legislature has provided in Code Section 31-12-3(a) that the
Department of Public Health may require vaccinations or other
measures to prevent the conveyance of infectious matter from
infected persons to other persons as may be necessary and
appropriate, although this Code Section does not vest sole power in
the Department to do so and the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Department to provide for the implementation of such
measures during a public health state of emergency must be adopted
pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the “Georgia Administrative
Procedure Act,”; and

Code Section 38-12-2.1 provides that in the event of a public health
emergency, the Department of Public Health shall carry out certain
investigatory duties relating to the identification of the illness or
health condition, the source thereof, and infected or potentially

Page 5 of 28

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

infected persons, and shall promulgate rules and regulations
appropriate for management of any declared public health
emergency; and

The Department of Public Health is also authorized to adopt and
implement emergency rules and regulations pursuant to the
provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-13-4; however, all
such rules, regulations, and emergency rules and regulations remain
subject to the provisions of Code Section 38-3-51(i); and

The various public health emergency related powers designated to
the Department of Public Health are not mutually exclusive, and
pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51, are subject to the Governor’s own
emergency management orders; and

In addition to the limitations on agency authority during a state of
emergency set forth in Code Section 38-3-51, Code Section 38-3-
28(a) prohibits political subdivisions of the state from making,
amending, or rescinding any orders, rules, and regulations as may be
necessary for emergency management that are inconsistent with any
orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the Governor; and

Local rules, ordinances, orders, or mandates that provide for any
action more or less permissive than the recommendations and
requirements of this Order will result in an incompatible outcome for
the uniform response to COVID-19, therefore constituting
inconsistency as Black’s Law Dictionary defines “inconsistent” as
lacking agreement among parts or otherwise not compatible with
another fact or claim; and

In accordance with Georgia law, the Governor has ultimate authority
over the State’s emergency management procedures because, while
other agencies and political subdivisions of the State may be directed
or authorized to develop and implement emergency management
plans, rules, regulations, and emergency rules and regulations, Code
Section 38-3-28(a) clearly provides that no such rule, regulation, or
order may be inconsistent with the Governor’s own emergency
management directives; and

The State of Georgia implemented a COVID-19 vaccine distribution
program in December of 2020;

The vaccine distribution program has been successful in vaccinating
a significant percentage of Georgia’s healthcare workers, elderly
population, first responders, educators, medically fragile population,
and other hardworking Georgians;

Page 6 of 28

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

As a result of the state’s successful vaccine distribution program,
ample supply of COVID-19 tests and Personal Protective Equipment,
improved treatment methods for COVID-19 patients, and Georgia
residents’ efforts to minimize the spread of COVID-19 through social
distancing, wearing face coverings, and hand sanitization, COVID-19
hospitalizations and the rate of new COVID-19 cases have steadily
declined;

In consultation with public health and emergency preparedness
officials, I have determined that the following actions are necessary
and appropriate to protect the strength of Georgia’s economy and
provide for the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia’s residents and
visitors as they resume conducting normal activities with reduced
COVID-19 related restrictions.

Now, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO THE AFOREMENTIONED GEORGIA

LAW, CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME
AS THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

That unless otherwise noted, the provisions contained in this Order
shall be effective from May 1, 2021 at 12:00 A.M. until May 30, 2021
at 11:59 P.M.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are strongly
encouraged to practice Social Distancing as defined herein.

IT IS FURTHER

That all residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are strongly
encouraged to wear face coverings as practicable while outside their
homes or place of residence, except when eating, drinking, or
exercising outdoors.

IT IS FURTHER

All residents and visitors of the State of Georgia are strongly
encouraged to practice sanitation in accordance with the guidelines
published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Page 7 of 28

ORDERED:

II. DEFINITIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That the following definitions shall apply to this Order:

1.

“Bar” shall mean any Organization which possesses a license
to operate as a bar or otherwise meets the definition of “bar”
as defined by Code Section 3-1-2(2.1).

“Convention” shall mean an organized event of more than 100
persons that are required to register or obtain a license to
gather for a common purpose at a single indoor facility or
grouping of indoor facilities for more than four hours and in
some cases for more than one day. Such definition shall
include exhibitions, trade shows, conferences, and business
retreats. Conventions shall not include any regular operation
of a business that occurs on property owned or leased for the
exclusive operation of such business. Conventions shall not
include regular religious services, business meetings, sports
competitions, or events categorized by Code Section 16-11-
173(b)(1)(A).

. “Fully Vaccinated” shall mean for any person that two (2) or

more weeks have passed since said person’s receipt of one
does of a single-dose COVID-19 vaccine or receipt of the
second dose in a two-dose COVID-19 vaccine series.

“Live Performance Venue” shall mean any indoor or outdoor
location that requires patrons to purchase a license to attend
an event featuring live musical, dramatical, automotive,
educational, or any other type of entertainment performed
before in-person patrons. This definition shall not include
Restaurants, school, university, college, or technical college
classrooms or lecture halls, banquet facilities, private event
facilities, private reception venues, weddings, drive-in venues
or events, events held as part of a Convention, graduation
ceremonies, or indoor or outdoor recreational fields used for
amateur sporting events.

“Local Option Face Covering Requirement” shall mean a
requirement imposed by a municipal, county, or other
government entity that individuals wear face masks or face
coverings when not able to maintain Social Distancing from
non-cohabitating persons that is permitted by the terms of
this Executive Order.

“Long-Term Care Facility” shall include all:

A. “Intermediate care facilities,” “personal care homes,”
and “skilled nursing facilities” as defined by Code
Section 31-6-2;

B. “Nursing homes” as defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r.
111-8-56-.01(a);

Page 8 of 28

C. “Inpatient hospice” as defined by Code Section 31-7-
172 and licensed pursuant to Code Section 31-7-173;

D. “Assisted living communities” and all facilities
providing “assisted living care” pursuant to Code
Section 31-7-12.2;

E. “Community living arrangements” as classified by the
Department of Community Health pursuant to Code
Section 31-2-4(d)(8); and

F. “Community integration homes” operated by the
Georgia Department of Behavioral Health and
Developmental Disabilities.

7. “Organization” shall mean any business, establishment,
corporation, non-profit corporation, organization,
convention, event, or other entity.

8. “Personal Protective Equipment” shall mean surgical masks,
Ng5 masks, respirators, other face masks, protective gloves,
protective clothing, protective garments, and shoe coverings.

9. “Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol” shall mean that, in
accordance with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
and Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines, any
person who has had close contact (six (6) feet or closer for a
cumulative total of fifteen (15) minutes or more) with a person
that has or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the past
fourteen (14) days is required to either:

A. Quarantine at their home or place of residence for fourteen
| (14) days from the date of most recent exposure;

B. Quarantine at their home or place of residence for at least

| ten (10) days from the date of most recent exposure, then
practice extreme diligence in monitoring for Symptoms of
COVID-19, wearing a face covering, and social distancing
until fourteen (14) days have passed since the date of most
recent exposure;

C. Quarantine at their home or place of residence for at least
seven (7) days from the date of most recent exposure if a
COVID-19 test was taken no earlier than day five (5) of
quarantine and a negative result is received, then practice
extreme diligence in monitoring for Symptoms of COVID-
19, wearing a face covering, and social distancing until
fourteen (14) days have passed since the date of most
recent exposure, or

D. Ifthe exposed person has:

i. Been Fully Vaccinated; or

ii. Recovered from illness due to laboratory confirmed
COVID-19 infection, has already met criteria to end
isolation, and is within ninety (90) days following
the onset of symptoms of the initial laboratory
confirmed COVID-19 infection or ninety (90) days

Page 9 of 28

ORDERED:

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

of the first positive COVID-19 test result if they were
asymptomatic during the initial infection;

the person shall not be required to quarantine but shall

actively monitor for Symptoms of COVID-19.
If at any time during the Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol
time period a person experiences Symptoms of COVID-19,
that person shall seek a COVID-19 test, isolate until test
results are received, and proceed in accordance with the test
results and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and
Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines.
“Restaurant” shall mean any entity defined as a “food service
establishment” pursuant to Code Section 26-2-370(2).
“Social Distancing” shall mean keeping space between
yourself and other people outside of your home or place of
residence. Persons practicing Social Distancing should stay at
least six (6) feet from other people, avoid assembling in
groups, avoid crowded places, and avoid large crowds. This
provision shall not apply to cohabitating persons, family
units, or roommates residing together in private homes,
whether inside or outside of their homes or place of residence.
“Symptoms of COVID-19” shall mean symptoms identified by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as symptoms
of COVID-19 and shall include at least the following: fever or
chills; cough; shortness of breath or difficulty breathing;
fatigue; muscle or body aches; headache; new loss of taste or
smell; sore throat; congestion or runny nose; nausea or
vomiting; and diarrhea.
“Threshold Requirement” shall mean the prevalence in a
county of confirmed cases of COVID-19 over the previous
fourteen (14) days is equal to or greater than one hundred
(100) cases per one hundred thousand (100,000) people
according to the Georgia Department of Public Health.
“Worker” shall include employees, independent contractors,
agents, volunteers, or other representatives of an
Organization.

III. RESTAURANTS & BARS

IT IS FURTHER

That all Restaurants and Bars, as well as all banquet facilities, private
event facilities, and private reception venues where food is served,
that operate during the effective dates of this Order shall implement
measures which mitigate the exposure and spread of COVID-19
among its patrons and workforce. Such measures shall include the
following:

Page 10 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

1. Screen and evaluate Workers who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19;

2. Require Workers who exhibit Symptoms of COVID-19 to not
report to work or to seek medical attention;

3. Maintain a regular cleaning schedule for the entire facility and
frequently clean and sanitize high contact areas that are
touched often by Workers and/or patrons including, but not
limited to, bar tops, table condiments, digital ordering
devices, check presenters, self-service areas, reusable menus,
tabletops, and playgrounds;

4. Posting signage at the entrances to the facility stating that
individuals who have been diagnosed with COVID-19, have
Symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a person that has
or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the past fourteen (14)
days and have not completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine
Protocol shall not enter the facility;

5. Where practicable, physical barriers such as partitions or
Plexiglas at registers should be used;

6. Use technological solutions where possible to reduce person-
to-person interaction: mobile ordering, mobile access to
menus, text on arrival for seating, and contactless payment
options; and

7, Ensure ventilation systems operate properly and increase
circulation and purification of air within facilities as
practicable.

IT IS FURTHER

That none of the provisions of Section III of this Order, titled
“Restaurants & Bars,” shall apply to the operation of dine-in services
in hospitals, health care facilities, nursing homes, or other long-term
care facilities, but such facilities should implement measures to
prevent the spread of COVID-19 if possible.

IT IS FURTHER

In the event that any Organization subject to the requirements of this
Section III, titled “Restaurants & Bars,” shall also qualify as any other
type of Organization or event for which specific operating
requirements are set forth in Section IV, titled “Industry, Commerce,
& Organizations,” or Section VIII, titled “Sports & Live Performance
Venues,” the Organization shall adhere to the requirements of
Section III and the requirements for all other types of Organizations
and events for which it qualifies. In the event that any of said
requirements conflict, the requirements of Section ITI shall control.

Page 11 of 28

ORDERED:

IV. INDUSTRY, COMMERCE, & ORGANIZATIONS

IT IS FURTHER

That all Organizations that continue in-person operations during the
effective dates of this Order shall implement measures which
mitigate the exposure and spread of COVID-19 among its workforce.
Such measures may include the following:

1.

2.

3.

10.

11.

12.

Any measures that have been proven effective to control the
spread of COVID-19;

Screening and evaluating Workers who exhibit Symptoms of
COVID-19;

Requiring Workers who exhibit Symptoms of COVID-19 to
not report to work or to seek medical attention;

Posting signage at the entrances to the facility stating that
individuals who have been diagnosed with COVID-19, have
Symptoms of COVID-19, or had contact with a person that has
or is suspected to have COVID-19 within the past fourteen (14)
days and have not completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine
Protocol shall not enter the facility;

Enhancing sanitation as appropriate;

Disinfecting frequently touched surfaces regularly, including,
but not limited to, PIN entry devices, signature pads, and
other point of sale equipment, door handles, and light
switches;

Increasing space between Workers’ worksites to maintain
Social Distancing;

Permitting Workers to take breaks and meals outside, in their
office or personal workspace, or in such other areas where
proper Social Distancing is attainable;

If the Organization engages volunteers or has members of the
public participate in activities, prohibiting volunteering or
participation in activities for persons diagnosed with COVID-
19, having exhibited Symptoms of COVID-19, or having had
contact with a person that has or is suspected to have COVID-
19 within the past fourteen (14) days and having not yet
completed the Post-Exposure Quarantine Protocol;

Ensuring ventilation systems operate properly and increasing
circulation and purification of air within facilities as
practicable;

If the Organization provides childcare services, complying
with the regulations for “Childcare Facilities” included in
Section VI of this Order titled “Education & Children;” and
Any food service areas within an Organization’s facility must
adhere to the guidelines set forth in Section IT] of this Order,
titled “Restaurants & Bars.”

Page 12 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the applicable requirements above for all
Organizations, Conventions operating during the effective dates of
this Order shall implement additional measures to prevent the
spread of COVID-19. Such measures shall include:

1. Requiring that all individuals exhibiting or experiencing
Symptoms of COVID-19 at any time while at a Convention be
isolated and leave the facility as soon as practicable;

2. Providing training to Workers on how to identify Symptoms
of COVID-19 in any individuals present, the proper processes
for assisting a potentially ill individual with exiting the facility,
and the appropriate infection mitigation procedures to
perform in such an event;

3. Providing an isolation area or areas for individuals
experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19 that are unable to
immediately leave the Convention;

4. To the extent practicable, utilizing contactless parking
systems, registration, check-in, check-out, security checks,
coat/bag checks, and/or sales; and

5. To the extent practicable, utilizing physical barriers such as
partitions or Plexiglas at registration and check-in stations,
refreshment stations, and points of sale.

V. HEALTHCARE

IT IS FURTHER

That Long-Term Care Facilities’ visitation policies shall comply with
the Georgia Department of Public Health’s Long-Term Care Facility
Administrative Order. This provision shall be strictly enforced upon
Long-Term Care Facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

That any person, service, or entity delivering healthcare during the
effective dates of this Order shall adhere to the guidelines for all
Organizations listed in Section IV, titled “Industry, Commerce, &
Organizations,” in addition to the guidelines listed in this Section.

IT IS FURTHER
That in addition to the applicable requirements for all Organizations
set forth in Section IV, titled “Industry, Commerce, &

Organizations,” above, Long-Term Care Facilities shall implement
additional measures and protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-

Page 13 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

19 and shall adhere to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and Georgia Department
of Public Health guidance.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Public Health is authorized to issue
directives under this Order to monitor, treat, prevent, reduce the
spread of, and suppress COVID-19 in Long-Term Care Facilities
throughout Georgia. These directives shall be coordinated among the
Georgia Department of Public Health, Georgia National Guard, and
the Georgia Department of Community Health.

IT IS FURTHER

That compliance with Georgia Department of Public Health, Georgia
Department of Community Health, and Georgia National Guard
directives and guidance shall be mandatory for all Long-Term Care
Facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51(d)(4.1), in the event of
noncompliance by a Long-Term Care Facility with this Order or a
directive issued subject to this Order, the Georgia Department of
Public Health may, after taking reasonable steps to provide notice
and an opportunity to comply, assume management and supervision
of the Facility.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard and the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety shall provide
available resources as requested to assist the Georgia Department of

Public Health in the enforcement of all applicable provisions of this
Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall prohibit community ombudsmen as
defined in Code Section 31-8-132(2) or the state ombudsman as
defined in Code Section 31-8-132(8) from having access to or
performing inspections of Long-Term Care Facilities pursuant to
Code Section 31-8-55.

Page 14 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall prohibit individuals providing
support coordination services through funding from the Georgia
Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities
pursuant to Code Sections 37-5-1 et seq. from having access to or
conducting health and safety visits within Long-Term Care Facilities.

IT IS FURTHER

That, pursuant to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
guidance, any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which limits
the types of vaccines pharmacists or nurses may administer is hereby
suspended to the extent necessary to allow pharmacists and nurses
to administer a COVID-19 vaccination, with or without a vaccine
protocol agreement. Such administration shall be in accordance with
the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
guidelines. This provision shall become effective upon signature and
shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency
declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health
State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is
renewed, this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such state of emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which requires
vaccine recipients to remain under the observation of the
administering pharmacist or nurse for a period of not less than 15
minutes immediately subsequent to the administration of the
vaccine is hereby suspended to the extent necessary to allow any
pharmacist or nurse to observe COVID-19 vaccine recipients for a
period of not less than 15 minutes immediately subsequent to the
administration of a COVID-19 vaccine. This provision shall become
effective upon signature and shall expire at the conclusion of the
Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No.
03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this provision of this
Order shall carry forward with the Public Health State of Emergency
until such state of emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed.
by the Governor.

Page 15 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws of regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which prohibits a
pharmacist or nurse from administering a vaccine to a patient while
the patient remains in his or her vehicle is hereby suspended to the
extent necessary to allow a pharmacist or nurse to administer a
COVID-19 vaccine to a patient while the patient remains in his or her
vehicle. This provision shall become effective upon signature and
shall expire at the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency
declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health
State of Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is
renewed, this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the
Public Health State of Emergency until such state of emergency is
terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws of regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 26-4-82(e) and Ga. Comp R. & Regs.
R. 480-15-.03(f), which limits the number of pharmacy interns, as
defined by Code Section 26-4-5(19), that a pharmacist may be
assisted by and directly supervise is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow a pharmacist to be assisted by and directly
supervise more than one (1) pharmacy intern at a time for the limited
purpose of supporting COVID-19 vaccination efforts. This provision
shall become effective upon signature and shall expire at the
conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed,
this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health
State of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Sections 43-11-1 and 43-11-17, which
prohibits licensed dentists, as defined by Code Section 43-11-1(10),
from administering vaccinations is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow licensed dentists to administer a COVID-19
vaccination for the limited purpose of providing COVID-19 vaccine
administration in partnership with the Georgia Department of Public
Health. Any such vaccine administration shall be in accordance with
the Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines. This provision
shall become effective upon signature and shall expire at the
conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in

Page 16 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed,
this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health
State of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

VI. EDUCATION & CHILDREN
IT IS FURTHER

That the State Board of Education shall provide rules, regulations,
and guidance for the operation of public elementary and secondary
schools for local boards of education relying on Code Section 20-2-
168(c)(2) to depart from a strict interpretation of the definition of
“school year,” “school month,” or “school day.” Such rules,
regulations, and guidance promulgated by the State Board of
Education shall adhere to, and shall not conflict with, guidance
issued by the Georgia State Health Officer, the Georgia Department
of Public Health, and the American Academy of Pediatrics.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall prevent any school, technical school,
college, or university from requiring faculty and Workers to attend
meetings or other necessary activities at a school or facility for the
purpose of supporting distance learning, research, administration,
maintenance, or preparation for the 2020-2021 school year.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the requirements for all Organizations set forth
in Section IV, titled “Industry, Commerce, & Organizations,” above,
schools and school districts shall implement additional measures to
prevent the spread of COVID-19 among Workers and students while
present on school campuses in accordance with Georgia Department
of Public Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
guidance.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519(27), that
graduates of eligible high schools, as defined by Code Section 20-3-
519(6), receive a qualifying standardized college admission test score
prior to high school graduation in order to qualify as a Zell Miller
Scholarship Student is hereby suspended for all such students that

Page 17 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

have graduated or will graduate high school in the year 2020 or
between January 1, 2021 and June 30, 2021. The Georgia Student
Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the deadline
by which said students must submit a qualifying standardized college
admission test score for purposes of Zell Miller Scholarship eligibility
to June 30, 2021 for 2020 graduates and to June 30, 2022 for
students that graduate between January 1, 2021 and June 30, 2021;
(b) to establish rules and procedures for retroactively awarding Zell
Miller Scholarships to those students who submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score in accordance with the
extended deadline provided that they met any applicable Zell Miller
Scholarship checkpoint requirements; and (c) to establish rules and
procedures whereunder HOPE scholarship funds issued to incoming
freshman students that later qualify for the Zell Miller Scholarship in
accordance with the extended deadline provided for herein shall be
returned.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519(27), that
graduates of ineligible high schools, meaning ones that do not meet
the definition of Code Section 20-3-519(6), or graduates of home
study programs meeting the requirements of Code Section 20-2-
690(c) must receive a qualifying standardized college admission test
score prior to high school graduation or home study completion in
order to qualify as Zell Miller Scholarship Students is hereby
suspended for all such students that graduate or complete home
study between March 14, 2020 and June 30, 2021. The Georgia
Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the
deadline by which said students must submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score for purposes of Zell Miller
Scholarship eligibility to June 30, 2021 for those students that
graduate or complete home study between March 14, 2020 and
December 31, 2020 and to June 30, 2022 for such students that
graduate or complete home study between January 1, 2021 and June
30, 2021; and (b) to establish rules and procedures for retroactively
awarding Zell Miller Scholarships to those students who submit a
qualifying standardized college admission test score in accordance
with the extended deadline provided that they met any applicable
Zell Miller Scholarship checkpoint requirements.

IT IS FURTHER
That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,

including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519.2, that graduates
of ineligible high schools, meaning those that do not meet the

Page 18 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

definition of Code Section 20-3-519(6), students that completed
home study programs meeting the requirements of Code Section 20-
2-690(c), or recipients of general education development (GED)
diplomas receive a score in the seventy-fifth percentile or higher
nationally on a standardized college admission test prior to
graduation, home study completion, or earning the GED in order to
qualify for a HOPE Scholarship is hereby suspended for all such
students that graduate, complete home study, or earn a GED
between March 14, 2020 and June 30, 2021. The Georgia Student
Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the deadline
by which said students must submit a qualifying standardized college
admission test score for purposes of HOPE Scholarship eligibility to
June 30, 2021 for those students that graduate, complete home
study, or earn a GED between March 14, 2020 and December 31,
2020 and to June 30, 2022 for such students that graduate, complete
home study, or earn a GED between January 1, 2021 and June 30,
2021; and (b) to establish rules and procedures for retroactively
awarding HOPE Scholarships to those students who submit a
qualifying standardized college admission test score in accordance
with the extended deadline provided that they met any applicable
HOPE Scholarship checkpoint requirements.

IT IS FURTHER

That in addition to the requirements for all Organizations set forth
in Section IV, titled “Industry, Commerce, & Organizations,” above
and the standard hygiene, sanitation, and disinfection licensing rules
promulgated by the Georgia Department of Early Care and Learning,
all Childcare Facilities that operate during the effective dates of this
Order shall implement additional measures to prevent the spread of
COVID-19. Such measures shall include the following:
1. Screening and evaluating all children prior to them entering
the classroom for Symptoms of COVID-19;
2. Prohibiting children from entering a classroom if they exhibit
any Symptoms of COVID-19; and
3. Allowing only bedding (sheets, pillows, blankets, and sleeping
bags) that can be washed to be used. Each child’s bedding
must be kept separate and, to the extent practicable, should
be stored in individually labeled bins, cubbies, or bags. Cots
and mats should be labeled for each child and any bedding
that touches a child’s skin should be cleaned regularly.

IT IS FURTHER
That Code Section 15-11-2(10) relating to the definition of “child” is

suspended for the limited purpose of ensuring that persons in the
care of the Georgia Division of Family & Children Services who age

Page 19 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

out of the definition of “child” during the Public Health State of
Emergency shall be eligible to remain in their placement and
continue to receive services for a duration of ninety (90) days
following the termination of the Public Health State of Emergency or
any extension thereof. This suspension shall apply to Code Section
15-11-2(10), effective until July 1, 2020, and upon expiration to Code
Section 15-11-2(10), effective July 1, 2020. Any Georgia Division of
Family & Children Services policies shall also align with this
provision.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any custodial arrangements created pursuant to the laws or
constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the United
States, nor shall any person use any provision of this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a custodial arrangement by any
court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of this State or the
laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER
To the extent that any provision of Section VI of this Order, titled
“Education & Children,” directly conflicts with any provision of

Section VII of this Order, titled “Governments,” the provision in
Section VI shall control.

VII, GOVERNMENTS

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of Code Section 48-5-311(e)(6A), “in-person”
appearances before county boards of equalization may occur via
remote communications, including, but not limited to, video
teleconference. This provision shall be implemented consistent with
Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 560-11-12-.02, which requires hearings
before county boards of equalization to “only be as formal as is
necessary to preserve order and be compatible with the principles of
justice.” Further, this provision does not abrogate the requirement
that county boards of equalization comply with the Georgia Open
Meetings Act. Further, decisions of county boards of equalization
may be transmitted electronically if all parties consent at the time of
the hearing.

Page 20 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any purported requirement under the laws of this state
requiring original signatures and raised corporate seals related to
construction surety bonds required under Code Sections 13-10-40-
65, 32-2-70, 36-91-1, 36-91-2, 36-91-50 and 36-91-70-93 and
commercial surety bonds required or permitted under numerous
other statutes are suspended for the limited purpose of providing
that public procurement officers shall accept electronic signatures
and electronic corporate seals as provided by the provisions of Code
Sections 10-12-2 et seq. and 33-24-14 and any construction surety
bond or commercial surety bond may be executed electronically if all
the following requirements are met:

1. The document is notarized pursuant to the requirements of
Executive Order 04.09.20.01; and

2. If requested by the procurement officer, the original shall
be provided within seven (7) business days.

IT IS FURTHER

That the requirements of Code Section 36-70-27 and 50-8-8 are
hereby suspended to the extent that they would prevent local
governments from being eligible to receive state funding for
expenditures made during the current Public Health State of
Emergency related to the prevention, treatment, or mitigation of
COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-28, county and municipal
governments are authorized and empowered to make, amend, and
rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as may be necessary for
emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying
out of this Order, but such orders, rules, and regulations shall not be
inconsistent with this Order or any other orders, rules, or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a
power derived from the Public Health State of Emergency
declaration. For the purpose of this provision, orders, rules, and

regulations that are promulgated by county and municipal

governments that are more or less restrictive than the terms of this
Order shall be considered inconsistent with this Order, unless such
provision, order, rule, or regulation is otherwise expressly permitted
by the terms of this Order.

Page 21 0f 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-28, other than orders issued.
pursuant to the authority of Code Section 38-3-60 et seq., any state,
county, or municipal law, order, ordinance, rule, or regulation that
requires persons to wear face coverings, masks, face shields, or any
other Personal Protective Equipment while in places of public
accommodation or on public property are suspended to the extent
that they are more restrictive than this Executive Order or any such
law, order, ordinance, rule, or regulation expressly permitted by this
Executive Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That municipalities, counties, and other governmental entities
located in counties that have reached the Threshold Requirement are
hereby permitted to impose a Local Option Face Covering
Requirement; however, local governmental entities are not required
to impose a Local Option Face Covering Requirement even if the
Threshold Requirement is reached.

IT IS FURTHER

If a local government entity meets the Threshold Requirement and
chooses to impose a Local Option Face Covering Requirement, such
Local Option Face Covering Requirement must comply with the
following:

1. The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not be
applied to individuals who are eating or drinking, those who
have difficulty donning or removing a face mask or face
covering without assistance, those who have a bona fide
religious objection to wearing a face mask or face covering, or
those who have a bona fide medical reason not to wear a face
mask or face covering;

2. The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not give
rise to any fines, fees, penalties (criminal or otherwise) or
other cause of action against any private Organization;

3. The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not give
rise to any fines, fees, or penalties in excess of fifty dollars
($50.00) against any person per offense, nor shall it be
punishable by imprisonment for any term;

4. Enforcement measures may only be taken against individuals.
Owners, directors, officers, or agents of any Organization may
not be held liable for the failure of their customers to comply
with any Local Option Face Covering Requirement;

5. The Local Option Face Covering Requirement shall not be
enforced at any Polling Place, as defined under Code Section

Page 22 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

21-2-2(27), and no individual shall be denied ingress or egress
to or from a Polling Place for failure to wear a face covering or
face mask;

6. The Local Option Face Covering Requirement cannot be
enforced against individuals on residential property; and

7. The Local Option Face Covering Requirement may be
enforced against individuals on private property where the
owner or occupant of the property consents to enforcement.
Organizations may be required to post reasonable public
notice of a Local Option Face Covering Requirement and state
whether such Organization consents to enforcement or does
not consent to enforcement of such requirement on its

property.
IT IS FURTHER

Local government entities who choose to impose a Local Option Face
Covering Requirement shall warn noncompliant individuals about
the health risks posed by not wearing a face mask or face covering
prior to issuing any citation and shall make good faith, reasonable
efforts to distribute free masks in their jurisdictions to individuals
who cannot afford a face mask or face covering. A person who is
found in violation of any Local Option Face Covering Requirement
and who cannot afford a face mask or face covering shall be provided
one at the municipality, county, or other governmental entity’s
expense.

IT IS FURTHER

That municipalities, counties, and other government entities shall
have the authority to control terms of entry onto property owned or
leased by the municipality, county, or other government authority,
board, bureau, or commission regardless of whether the Threshold
Requirement is met. Controlling terms of entry may include
requiring employees or other individuals present on municipality,
county, or other government authority, board, bureau, or
commission’s owned or leased property to wear a face mask or face
covering; however, no individual shall be denied ingress or egress to
or from a Polling Place, as defined under Code Section 21-2-2(27),
for failure to wear a face covering or face mask.

IT IS FURTHER
That for any weapons carry license or renewal license that expires
during the Public Health State of Emergency, the application for

renewal of such weapons carry license or renewal license made
pursuant to Code Section 16-11-129 shall be considered to be for a

Page 23 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

renewal license if the holder of such weapons carry license or renewal
license applies within 120 days after the expiration date on the face
of license.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 40-5-21.1, that limits the time period
for which a noncitizen who holds a Georgia driver’s license or
identification card may be issued a temporary driving permit or
identification card to 120 days from the date of expiration of his or
her valid driver’s license or identification card is hereby suspended
to the extent necessary to allow noncitizen holders of a Georgia
driver’s license or identification card, whose driver’s license or
identification card expired on or after March 14, 2020, who have
already been issued the 120 day temporary driving permit or
identification card permitted under Code Section 40-5-21.1, and have
filed, or on whose behalf has been filed, a request for an extension
with the United States Department of Homeland Security, or similar
such federal issuing agency, for time to remain lawfully within the
United States and said request is still pending, to apply to the Georgia
Department of Driver Services for one or more additional 120 day
temporary driving permits or identification cards. Any such
temporary driving permit or identification card shall be issued in
accordance with existing procedures established by the Georgia
Department of Driver Services and in the sole discretion of the
Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Driver Services. The
Georgia Department of Driver Services shall be authorized to issue
additional guidelines and procedures for the application and
issuance of said temporary driving permits and identification cards
as needed. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or
otherwise alter any existing identity or lawful status verification
requirements established by the Georgia Department of Driver
Services to comply with federal REAL ID requirements. This
provision shall become effective upon signature and shall expire at
the conclusion of the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of
Emergency declared in Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed,
this provision of this Order shall carry forward with the Public Health
State of Emergency until such state of emergency is terminated or
ceases to be renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER
That nothing in this Order shall relieve municipalities, counties, or

other local government entities from the obligations set forth under
Georgia law, including but not limited to Code Sections 9-13-11, 9-

Page 24 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

13-160 et seqg., 48-4-3, and 15-16-10, to conduct public auctions
through statutory levy processes and otherwise enforce writs of fieri
facias.

IT IS FURTHER

That strict compliance with Code Section 45-20-16 and Ga. Comp. R.
& Regs. r. 478-1-.16(12) shall be suspended for the limited purposes
of (4) allowing all employees, as defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r.
478-1-.02(14), but not including temporary employees as defined by
Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 478-1-.02(34), to use up to eight (8) hours of
emergency office closure leave for the purpose of receiving a COVID-
19 vaccine, provided that any employee who uses emergency office
closure leave for the purpose of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine shall
provide proof of said vaccination to his or her supervisor, and (2)
allowing employees who receive a COVID-19 vaccine and experience
negative side effects from said vaccine, the severity of which prohibit
him or her from being able to perform his or her duties of
employment, to use up to sixteen (16) hours of emergency office
closure leave for recovery from said side effects, provided that any
employee who uses emergency office closure leave for the purpose of
recovering from negative side effects of a COVID-19 vaccine shall
provide documentation of such negative side effects from a medical
provider to his or her supervisor, if so requested. This provision shall
become effective upon signature and shall expire at the conclusion of
the Public Health State of Emergency declared in Executive Order
No. 03.14.20.01. If the Public Health State of Emergency declared in
Executive Order No. 03.14.20.01 is renewed, this provision of this
Order shall carry forward with the Public Health State of Emergency
until such state of emergency is terminated or ceases to be renewed
by the Governor.

VIII, SPORTS & LIVE PERFORMANCE VENUES

IT IS FURTHER

That all Live Performance Venues shall operate pursuant to the
guidelines for all Organizations set forth in Section IV, titled
“Industry, Commerce, & Organizations,” above. Additional
measures may be developed in conjunction with the performer(s),
and, if applicable, the organizer(s), promoter(s), or sponsor(s) of the
event.

Page 25 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That professional, collegiate, or high school sports teams and
organizations that engage in practices, games, or other in-person
operations during the effective dates of this Executive
Order shall operate solely pursuant to the rules or guidelines that
have been promulgated or approved by the respective professional
league or applicable conference or association of the sport.

IT IS FURTHER

Any previous executive order or departmental rule which would
prevent professional sports teams or organizations, collegiate sports
teams or organizations, high school sports teams or organizations, or
other amateur sports teams or organizations from operating in a
manner consistent with the above requirements is hereby
suspended.

IX. ENFORCEMENT

IT IS FURTHER

That the state agencies with primary regulatory authority over the
entities listed in this Order and the Commissioner of the Department
of Public Safety shall provide resources as requested to assist in the
enforcement of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-7, any person who violates this
Order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Officials enforcing this Order
should take reasonable steps to provide notice prior to issuing a
citation or making an arrest. No provision of this Order shall limit
the ability of law enforcement officers to enforce the laws of this
State. Particularly, the provisions of Code Section 38-3-4 remain in
effect, and all law enforcement is authorized to enforce the Orders
issued pursuant to Title 38, Chapter 3.

IT IS FURTHER

That no Organization shall be mandated to close for failure to comply
with this Executive Order, provided, however, that nothing in this
provision shall be construed to prohibit the closure of an
Organization by appropriate authorities for any other lawful reason.

Page 26 of 28

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That pursuant to Executive Order 04.02.20.01 and Code Section 38-
3-51, enforcement of any county or municipal ordinance or order that
is more or less restrictive than this Order and is not otherwise
expressly permitted by the terms herein is hereby suspended.

X. MISCELLANEOUS

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any
Quarantine or Isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Georgia Department of Public Health shall control.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

Page 27 of 28

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that
the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

IT IS FURTHER
ORDERED: The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the

scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

XI. EFFECTIVE DATE & SIGNATURE

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

This 30th day of April 2021.

Bil

GOVERNOR

Page 28 of 28
