THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR TROPICAL STORM ELSA

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

In preparation for the impact of Tropical Storm Elsa on the Gulf
Coast of the United States, the State of Georgia must make every
effort to be prepared and protect the essential needs of the public;
and

The National Hurricane Center forecasts Tropical Storm Elsa will
produce excessive rainfall and damaging winds, causing extensive
flooding, fallen trees, and power outages in Georgia; and

This storm system has the potential to produce destructive impacts
to citizens throughout the central, southern, and coastal regions of
the State of Georgia; and

Due to the possibility of downed trees, power lines, and debris,
Georgia's network of roads may be rendered impassable in the
affected counties, isolating residences and persons from access to
essential public services; and

Assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to provide for the
public's safety, protect private property, and maintain the social and
economic welfare of the state; and

The threat exists that the State of Georgia could suffer a shortage of
petroleum products, emergency or disaster related materials,
supplies, and other goods and services; and

The uninterrupted supply of petroleum products, emergency or
disaster related materials, supplies, and goods and services is an
essential need of the public, and any perceived or actual shortage
threatens public welfare; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulation, 49 C.F.R. 8§ 390, et
seq., prescribes limits on the hours of service for operators of
commercial motor vehicles, and federal law, 23 U.S.C. § 127, sets
forth certain weight limitations for vehicles on interstate highways;
and

49 C.F.R. § 390.23 allows the Governor of a State to suspend these
rules and regulations for commercial vehicles responding to an
emergency for up to thirty (30) days, if the Governor determines that
an emergency condition exists; and

On June 30, 2021, I declared a State of Emergency for Continued
COVID-19 Economic Recovery by issuing Executive Order
06.30.21.01; and

This Order shall create a coexisting state of emergency in the State of
Georgia with the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery described in the immediately preceding
paragraph; and

The responses by the State to this State of Emergency for Tropical
Storm Elsa and the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery should proceed simultaneously, without one
impeding the other; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the authority to bring
emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and
regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in the following Georgia counties
due to the potential effects caused by Tropical Storm Elsa:

Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Baker, Baldwin, Ben Hill, Berrien, Bibb,
Bleckley, Brantley, Brooks, Bryan, Bulloch, Burke, Calhoun,
Camden, Candler, Charlton, Chatham, Chattahoochee, Clay, Clinch,
Coffee, Colquitt, Columbia, Cook, Crawford, Crisp, Decatur, Dodge,
Dooly, Dougherty, Early, Echols, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans,
Glascock, Glynn, Grady, Hancock, Houston, Irwin, Jeff Davis,
Jefferson, Jenkins, Johnson, Jones, Lanier, Laurens, Lee, Liberty,
Long, Lowndes, Macon, Marion, McDuffie, McIntosh, Miller,
Mitchell, Montgomery, Muscogee, Peach, Pierce, Pulaski, Quitman,
Randolph, Richmond, Schley, Screven, Seminole, Stewart, Sumter,
Tattnall, Taylor, Telfair, Terrell, Thomas, Tift, Toombs, Treutlen,

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Turner, Twiggs, Ware, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Webster,
Wheeler, Wilcox, Wilkinson, and Worth.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State of Emergency declared by this Order shall coexist with
the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery
declared by Executive Order 06.30.21.01. The existence or
termination of one shall not impinge the other.

IT IS FURTHER

That any orders derivative of or appurtenant to this Order addressing
this State of Emergency for Tropical Storm Elsa shall not infringe,
overturn, or in any way amend any orders that have been issued for
the purpose of responding to the State of Emergency for Continued.
COVID-19 Economic Recovery declared by Executive Order
06.30.21.01.

IT IS FURTHER

That during preparation, response, and recovery activities for
Tropical Storm Elsa, price gouging of goods and services necessary
to support these efforts would be detrimental to the social and
economic welfare of the citizens of this state; and thus O.C.G.A. § 10-
1-393.4, prohibiting price gouging, is in effect.

IT IS FURTHER

That in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 390.23(a)(1)()(A), the federal
rules and regulations limiting hours operators of commercial
vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure that carrier crews are
available as needed to provide emergency relief. This declared
emergency justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver’s hours of
service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
suspension will remain in effect for eight (8) days from the date of
this Order or until the emergency condition ceases to exist,
whichever is less.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this emergency
declaration will require or allow an ill or fatigued driver to operate a
motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he
or she needs immediate rest will be given at least ten (10) consecutive
hours off-duty before being required to return to service.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any such vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing disaster
relief and/or preparation related to this State of Emergency for
Tropical Storm Elsa, which traverses roadways maintained by the
state of Georgia shall not exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this Executive
Order declaring a State of Emergency for Tropical Storm Elsa shall
be issued permits by the Georgia Department of Public Safety. Said
vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions the Georgia
Department of Public Safety may list on applicable permits. Nothing
in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow any vehicle to
exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like structures, nor shall
anything in this Executive Order be construed to relieve compliance
with restrictions other than those specified in this Order or from any
statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement not specifically waived
herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That this Executive Order does not suspend operation of any state or
federal law or regulation, except as specifically described herein, nor
do the waiver of rules and regulations in this Order affect or amend
similar rule and regulation waivers for motor carriers or commercial
vehicles.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
affected areas, and the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency
Operations Plan.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that
the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.
IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall be valid for a period of eight (8) days, expiring Wednesday, July

14, 2021, at 11:59 P.M. unless this State of Emergency is renewed by
the Governor.

This 6th day of July 2021 at [:2 PM.

Bik

“GOVERNOR
