THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

STATE OF EMERGENCY

FOR INTERSTATE 16 CLOSURE IN TREUTLEN COUNTY

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On July 15, 2021, a truck crashed into the Georgia Highway 86 bridge
over Interstate 16 in Treutlen County, knocking the bridge deck off
its foundation and causing the complete closure of the section of
Interstate 16 between exit 71 and exit 78 until the bridge can either
be repaired or destroyed; and

Interstate 16 is a major transportation and commercial trucking
thoroughfare in Georgia and the Southeastern United States with
twenty-eight percent of all traffic being commercial trucks; and

The Port of Savannah is fully open, with other highways and railways
servicing its freight; however, Interstate 16 serves as a primary route
used to ship millions of tons of goods, including petroleum, to and
from the Port of Savannah; and

Assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to protect property,
provide for the public's safety, and maintain the social and economic
welfare of the State; and

The uninterrupted supply of materials, supplies, and goods and
services is an essential need of the public, and any perceived or actual
shortage threatens public welfare; and

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulation, 49 C.F.R. 8§ 390, et
seq., prescribes limits on the hours of service for operators of
commercial motor vehicles, and federal law, 23 U.S.C. § 127, sets
forth certain weight limitations for vehicles on interstate highways;
and

49 C.F.R. § 390.23 allows the Governor of a State to suspend these
rules and regulations for commercial vehicles responding to an

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

emergency for up to thirty (30) days, if the Governor determines that
an emergency condition exists; and

On June 30, 2021, I declared a State of Emergency for Continued
COVID-19 Economic Recovery by issuing Executive Order
06.30.21.01; and

This Order shall create a coexisting state of emergency in Treutlen
County with the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery described in the immediately preceding
paragraph; and

The responses by the State to this State of Emergency for the
Interstate 16 Closure in Treutlen County and the State of Emergency
for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery should proceed
simultaneously, without one impeding the other; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the authority to bring
emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and
regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in Treutlen County, Georgia due to
the closure of Interstate 16 from exit 71 to exit 78. and the resulting
detours

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in the response and recovery activities currently underway, and the
Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency
activate the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State of Emergency declared by this Order shall coexist with
the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery
declared by Executive Order 06.30.21.01. The existence or
termination of one shall not impinge the other.

IT IS FURTHER

That any orders derivative of or appurtenant to this Order addressing
this State of Emergency for the Interstate 16 Closure in Treutlen

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

County shall not infringe, overturn, or in any way amend any orders
that have been issued for the purpose of responding to the State of
Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery declared by
Executive Order 06.30.21.01.

IT IS FURTHER

That in accordance with 49 C.F.R. 390.23(a)(1)()(A), the federal
rules and regulations limiting the hours operators of commercial
vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure that carrier crews are
available as needed to provide emergency relief. This declared
emergency justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver’s hours of
service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
suspension will remain in effect for ten (10) days from the date of this
Order or until the emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is
less.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this emergency
declaration will require or allow an ill or fatigued driver to operate a
motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he
or she needs immediate rest will be given at least ten (10) consecutive
hours off-duty before being required to return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any such vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing disaster
relief related to this State of Emergency for the Interstate 16 Closure
in Treutlen County which traverses roadways maintained by the state
of Georgia shall not exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this Executive
Order declaring a State of Emergency for the Interstate 16 Closure in
Treutlen County shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department
of Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special
conditions the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on
applicable permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be
construed to allow any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for
bridges and like structures, nor shall anything in this Executive
Order be construed to relieve compliance with restrictions other than
those specified in this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other
legal requirement not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-635-8176 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Executive Order does not suspend operation of any state or
federal law or regulation, except as specifically described herein, nor
do the waiver of rules and regulations in this Order affect or amend
similar rule and regulation waivers for motor carriers or commercial
vehicles.

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that
the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.
IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of this Order shall be valid for a period of ten (10) days,
expiring Saturday, July 24, 2021, at 11:59 P.M. unless this State of
Emergency is renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

This 15h day of July 2021 at 25" P.M.

53)

GOVERNOR
