EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

On June 30, 2021, due to the ongoing negative impacts of COVID-19
on Georgia’s economy, supply chain, and healthcare infrastructure, I
issued Executive Order No. 06.30.21.01, declaring a State of
Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery; and

On July 22, 2021, I renewed the State of Emergency for Continued
COVID-19 Economic Recovery until August 29, 2021, by issuing
Executive Order 07.22.21.01; and

On August 19, 2021, I renewed the State of Emergency for Continued
COVID-19 Economic Recovery until September 28, 2021, by issuing
Executive Order 08.19.21.01; and

Executive Order 06.30.21.01 authorized a call of up to one hundred
(100) Georgia National Guard troops for state active duty to be used
in response to this State of Emergency; and

Executive Order 08.25.21.01 authorized a call of up to an additional
nine hundred (900) Georgia National Guard troops for state active
duty to be used in response to this State of Emergency; and

Continued assistance from the Georgia National Guard is necessary
to ensure the complete restoration of the social and economic welfare
of the state from the negative impacts of COVID-19; and

The uninterrupted supply of medical goods and other emergency
related materials, supplies, goods, and services during this State of
Emergency is an essential need of the public and any perceived or
actual shortage threatens public welfare; and

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, 49 C.F.R. 8§ 390 et
seq., prescribes limits on the hours of service for operators of

Page 1 of 4

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

commercial vehicles, and federal law, 23 U.S.C. § 127, sets forth
certain weight limitations for vehicles on interstate highways; and

49 C.F.R. § 390.23 allows the Governor of a state to suspend these
rules and regulations for commercial vehicles responding to an
emergency for up to thirty (30) days, if the Governor determines an
emergency condition exists.

Georgia law vests the Governor in Code Section 38-3-51 with the
authority to bring emergency situations under control by issuing
orders, rules, and regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the
public.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That the Georgia Department of Defense provide an additional one
thousand five hundred (1,500) Georgia National Guard troops to be
used in response to the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery, bringing the total authorization to two thousand
five hundred (2,500) troops.

IT IS FURTHER

That these Georgia National Guard troops be called up to State Active
Duty as necessary by the Adjutant General at the request of the
Director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency.

IT IS FURTHER

That if the emergency necessitates the use of Title 10 military forces,
the Adjutant General will identify a member of his staff with
appropriate training, rank, and qualifications to act as a dual status
commander over all military forces responding to this State of
Emergency within the State of Georgia.

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the
uninterrupted supply of healthcare supplies as well as all other
supplies, goods, and services throughout Georgia. This declared
emergency justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver’s hours of
service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
suspension will remain in effect for thirty (30) days or until the

Page 2 of 4

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is less. Nothing
herein will be construed as an exemption from the Commercial
Driver’s License requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 383 and the financial
requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 387.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this State of
Emergency will require or allow an ill or fatigued driver to operate a
motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he
or she needs immediate rest will be given at least ten (10) consecutive
hours off-duty before being required to return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any commercial vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief
related to the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic
Recovery, which traverses roadways maintained by the State of
Georgia shall not exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable

Page 3 of 4

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 844-837-55 or through the
Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System by calling
404-624-7258 or by visiting the online’ portal at
https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order
shall be held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia
Constitution, in violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any
respect, such invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this
Order shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had not been included in the Order.

Iv IS FURTHER

That all provisions of this Order shall remain effective until the State
of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery declared
by Executive Order 06.30.21.01, and renewed by Executive Orders
07.22.21.01 and 08.19.21.01, is terminated or ceases to be renewed
by the Governor or until this Order is otherwise terminated via
subsequent Executive Order.

This 30th day of August 2021.

Bf h

' GOVERNOR

Page 4 of 4
