THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY

FOR CONTINUED COVID-19 ECONOMIC RECOVERY

REGULATORY SUSPENSIONS

On June 30, 2021, due to the ongoing negative impacts of COVID-19
on the State of Georgia, I issued Executive Order 06.30.21.01,
declaring a State of Emergency in Georgia for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery; and

On July 22, 2021, I renewed the State of Emergency for Continued
COVID-19 Economic Recovery until August 29, 2021, by issuing
Executive Order 07.22.21.01; and

On August 19, 2021, I renewed the State of Emergency for Continued
COVID-19 Economic Recovery until September 28, 2021, by issuing
Executive Order 08.19.21.01; and

On September 20, 2021, I renewed the State of Emergency for
Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery until October 28, 2021, by
issuing Executive Order 09.20.21.01; and

The State is experiencing such state of emergency due to the impacts
of COVID-19 on the economy, supply chain, and _ healthcare
infrastructure; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor” have the force and effect
of law; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with protecting the
citizens of this State, including during a state of emergency; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
enforce all laws, rules, and regulations relating to emergency
management and to assume direct operational control of all civil
forces and helpers in the state; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
suspend any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for
conduct of state business, or the orders, rules, or regulations of any
state agency if strict compliance with any statute, order, rule, or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary
action in coping with the emergency or disaster; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(2) vests the Governor with the power to
utilize all available resources of the state government and of each
political subdivision of the state as reasonably necessary to cope with
the emergency or disaster, therefore providing the Governor with
emergency authority over all resources of every local government of
the State; and

Code Section 38-3-51(d)(3) establishes the Governor’s emergency
authority over the operation of state departments and agencies by
vesting the Governor with the power to transfer the direction,
personnel, or functions of state departments and agencies or units
thereof for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency
services; and

Code Section 38-3-28(a) prohibits political subdivisions of the state
from making, amending, or rescinding any orders, rules, and
regulations as may be necessary for emergency management that are
inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by
the Governor; and

Local rules, ordinances, orders, or mandates that provide for any
action more or less permissive than the recommendations and
requirements of this Order will result in an incompatible outcome for
the uniform response to this state of emergency, therefore
constituting inconsistency as Black’s Law Dictionary defines
“inconsistent” as lacking agreement among parts or otherwise not
compatible with another fact or claim; and

In accordance with Georgia law, the Governor has ultimate authority
over the State’s emergency management procedures because, while
other agencies and political subdivisions of the State may be directed
or authorized to develop and implement emergency management

Page 2 of 19

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

plans, rules, regulations, and emergency rules and regulations, Code
Section 38-3-28(a) clearly provides that no such rule, regulation, or
order may be inconsistent with the Governor’s own emergency
management directives; and

Various regulatory statute, rule, and regulation suspensions
regarding the operations of state entities are critical in assisting the
State and its residents and visitors in coping with and responding to
the continued negative impacts of COVID-19 on Georgia’s economy,
supply chain, and healthcare infrastructure; and

In consultation with state economic, healthcare, and emergency
preparedness officials, I have determined that the following actions
are necessary and appropriate to protect the continued strength of
Georgia’s economy and provide for the health, safety, and welfare of
Georgia’s residents and visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That unless otherwise noted herein, all provisions of this Order shall
remain effective until the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-
19 Economic Recovery declared by Executive Order 06.30.21.01, and
renewed by Executive Orders 07.22.21.01, 08.19.21.01, and
09.20.21.01, is terminated or ceases to be renewed by the Governor,
the provision expires by the nature of its terms, or the provision is
otherwise terminated via subsequent Executive Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Composite Medical Board is authorized to grant
temporary licenses to physicians who apply for a temporary medical
license and are currently licensed as a physician in good standing by
equivalent boards in other states to assist with the needs of the State
of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Nursing is authorized to grant temporary
licenses to nurses who apply for a temporary license and are
currently licensed in good standing as an Advanced Practice
Registered Nurse, Licensed Practical Nurse, or Registered
Professional Nurse by an equivalent board in another state to assist
with the needs of the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery.

Page 3 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Pharmacy is authorized to grant
temporary licenses to pharmacists who apply for a temporary license
and are currently licensed in good standing as a pharmacist by an
equivalent board in another state to assist with the needs of the State
of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery.

IT IS FURTHER

That the regulatory provisions of Code Section 43-1-4 and Ga. Comp.
R. & Regs. r. 360-2-.05(2), Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 360-2-.05(4), Ga.
Comp. R. & Regs. r. 360-2-.06, and all other implementing
administrative rules which prohibit the practice of medicine,
surgery, osteopathic medicine, and osteopathic surgery, by a licensee
whose license is inactive or lapsed shall not be enforced. Suspension
of these provisions is limited to licenses which have lapsed or expired
within the five (5) years prior to this Executive Order, to licenses that
were not subject to pending investigation by a respective licensing
board, and to those licenses that have no history of administrative
action adverse to the licensee. Suspension of these provisions is
further limited to medical treatment of victims of COVID-19 or
patients affected by the negative impact of COVID-19 on the
healthcare infrastructure.

IT 1S FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Nursing is authorized to grant temporary
licenses to practice under Code Sections 43-26-8 and 43-26-38 to
graduate registered nurses and graduate practical nurses who have
yet to take their respective licensing exam. Temporary licenses shall
allow the graduate registered nurse or graduate practical nurse to
work under a licensed registered nurse or licensed practical nurse
respectively during the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19
Economic Recovery.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Commissioner of Labor is authorized to implement the
suspension of Code Section 34-8-193(d)(1) requiring the maximum
unemployment benefits payable to an individual in a benefit year to
be limited to the lesser of one-fourth of base period wages or fourteen
(14) to twenty (26) times the individual’s weekly benefit amount.

IT IS FURTHER
That the Commissioner of Labor or his designee is authorized to

implement waivers of those rules and regulations necessary to
implement the suspension of Code Section 34-8-193(d)(4).

Page 4 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the Commissioner of Labor is authorized to adopt emergency
rules establishing the maximum unemployment benefits payable to
an individual in a benefit year with the suspension of Code Section
34-8-193(d)(1) becoming effective upon the adoption of such
emergency rules.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia State Board of Pharmacy (the “Board”) is
authorized and directed to implement the suspension of O.C.G.A. §
26-4-82(c)(2) and Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 480-15-.03(d)(2), to the
extent necessary to allow pharmacy technicians and pharmacists to
complete computer-based processing of prescriptions at alternative
locations, including from the residence of the pharmacy technician
or pharmacist.

IT IS FURTHER

That any purported requirement under the laws of this state that a
notarial act performed pursuant to Chapter 17 of Title 45 or Chapter
2 of Title 45 of the Official Code of the of Georgia must occur in the
physical presence of the notary public is hereby suspended, and any
such act may be performed remotely if all following requirements are
met:

1. The notary public uses_ real-time audio-video
communication technology or any similar real-time means
of electronic video conferencing that allows the parties to
communicate with each other simultaneously by sight and
sound in order to notarize signatures.

2. The notary public is an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Georgia or is operating under the supervision
of an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of
Georgia. As used here, the term “supervision” shall mean
that the notary public is an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or other representative of an attorney or
an attorney observes the execution of documents either in-
person or via the real-time audio-video communication
technology.

3. The signer requiring the notarial act from the notary
public presents satisfactory evidence of identity as
required in Code Section 45-17-8, while connected to the
real-time audio-video communication technology.

4. The notary public is physically located in the state of
Georgia.

Page 5 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

5. The signer transmits a copy of the signed document to the
notary public on the same date it was executed for
execution by the notary.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement under Georgia law, including, but not limited
to, Code Sections 10-6B-5, 15-9-86, 19-3-62, 19-8-4, 19-8-5, 19-8-6,
19-8-7, 29-2-11, 29-4-3, 29-5-3, 31-32-5, 44-2-1 et seq., 44-5-128, 44-
5-143, 44-5-144, 44-5-145, or 53-4-20, including a power of attorney,
verified petition filed in probate court, antenuptial agreement,
surrender of rights for adoption, return filed in probate court,
standby guardian designation, nomination of guardian, nomination
of conservator, advance directive for health care, deed, recordable
instrument, designation of successor custodian, will, codicil, or other
document be signed, subscribed, executed, witnessed, attested,
acknowledged, or affirmed in the physical presence of another
individual or other individuals may be satisfied by the use of audio-
video communication technology or any similar real-time means of
electronic video conferencing that allows all of the parties to
communicate with each other simultaneously by sight and sound.

IT IS FURTHER

That employees, staff, and contractors of health care institutions and
medical facilities shall be considered auxiliary emergency
management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35 for services
performed to assist with the needs of the State of Emergency for
Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery. This provision shall only
apply to employees, staff, and contractors of health care institutions
and medical facilities defined by Code Sections 31-7-1(4)(A), 31-7-
1(4)(C)-(G), and 31-7-1(5).

IT IS FURTHER

That services provided or performed by health care institutions and
medical facilities as defined by Code Sections 31-7-1(4)(A), 31-7-
1(4)(C)-(G), and 31-7-1(5) to assist with the needs of the State of
Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery shall be
considered emergency management activities pursuant to Code
Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER
That cardiac technicians, emergency medical technicians,
paramedics, and paramedic clinical preceptors as defined by Code

Section 31-11-2 shall be considered auxiliary emergency
management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35 for services

Page 6 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

performed to assist with the needs of the State of Emergency for
Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery.

IT IS FURTHER

That officers, directors, employees, staff, and contractors of air
ambulance services, ambulance providers, emergency medical
services systems, EMSC programs, and local coordinating entities as
defined by Code Section 31-11-2 shall be considered auxiliary
emergency management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35
for services performed to assist with the needs of the State of
Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery.

IT IS FURTHER

That services provided or performed by air ambulance services,
ambulance providers, emergency medical services systems, EMSC
programs, and local coordinating entities as defined by Code Section
31-11-2 to assist with the needs of the State of Emergency for
Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery shall be considered
emergency management activities pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That the requirements of Code Sections 36-70-27 and 50-8-8 are
hereby suspended to the extent that they would prevent local
governments from being eligible to receive state funding for
expenditures made during the Public Health State of Emergency
declared by Executive Order 03.14.20.01 or the State of Emergency
for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery related to the
prevention, treatment, or mitigation of COVID-19.

IT IS FURTHER

That on-the-road driving tests conducted by the Department of
Drivers Services may be administered by the Department by
examiners riding in the vehicle with drivers’ license applicants
during the test or by remote means.

IT IS FURTHER

That the employees, staff, and contractors of healthcare facilities as
defined by Code Sections 31-6-2(17) and 31-44-1(6), where services
are provided or performed to assist with the needs of the State of
Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic Recovery,
specifically including those employees, staff, and contractors defined
by Code Section 31-44-1(4), shall be considered auxiliary emergency
management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

Page 7 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That persons who are licensed, certified, or otherwise authorized
under Code Section 31-44-1(4) and those under Title 43, Chapter 26
and Chapter 34 to provide healthcare services in the ordinary course
of business or practice of a profession or in an approved education or
training program, whose practices are affected by the spread of
COVID-19, shall be considered auxiliary emergency management
workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35. However, in no case shall
employees, staff, or contractors providing or performing services in
or in conjunction with healthcare facilities as defined by Code
Section 31-7-1(4)(B) be considered auxiliary emergency
management workers pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That services provided or performed by healthcare facilities as
defined by Code Section 31-6-2(17) or 31-44-1(6) to assist with the
needs of the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic
Recovery shall be considered emergency management activities
pursuant to Code Section 38-3-35. In no case shall services provided
or performed by healthcare facilities as defined by Code Section 31-
7-1(4)(B) be considered emergency management activities pursuant
to Code Section 38-3-35.

IT IS FURTHER

That any purported requirement under the laws of this state
requiring original signatures and raised corporate seals related to
construction surety bonds required under Code Sections 13-10-40-
65, 32-2-70, 36-91-1, 36-91-2, 36-91-50 and 36-91-70-93 and
commercial surety bonds required or permitted under numerous
other statutes are suspended for the limited purpose of providing
that public procurement officers shall accept electronic signatures
and electronic corporate seals as provided by the provisions of Code
Sections 10-12-2 et seq. and 33-24-14 and any construction surety
bond or commercial surety bond may be executed electronically if all
the following requirements are met:

1. The document is notarized pursuant to the requirements
of Executive Order 04.09.20.01; and

2. If requested by the procurement officer, the original shall
be provided within seven (7) business days.

IT IS FURTHER

That for the purposes of Code Section 48-5-311(e)(6A), “in-person”
appearances before county boards of equalization may occur via
remote communications, including, but not limited to, video

Page 8 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

teleconference. This provision shall be implemented consistent with
Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 560-11-12-.02, which requires hearings
before county boards of equalization to “only be as formal as is
necessary to preserve order and be compatible with the principles of
justice.” Further, this provision does not abrogate the requirement
that county boards of equalization comply with the Georgia Open
Meetings Act. Further, decisions of county boards of equalization
may be transmitted electronically if all parties consent at the time of
the hearing.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Dentistry shall be authorized to issue
temporary licenses to dental hygienist applicants who graduated in
2020 from an accredited dental hygiene school and have yet to take
their licensing exam due to said exam being postponed or cancelled
as a result of COVID-19. Such temporary licenses shall allow a
graduate dental hygienist applicant to work under the direct
supervision of a licensed supervising dentist during the period of
temporary licensure. Guidelines for the requirements and procedure
for the application of the temporary license shall be issued by the
Georgia Board of Dentistry. Code Section 43-11-70.1 and Ga. Comp
R. & Regs. R. 150-5-.02(2) shall be suspended to the extent that they
would prohibit the issuance of such temporary licenses.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Dentistry shall be authorized to issue
temporary licenses to dental applicants who graduated in 2020 from
an accredited dental college and have yet to take their licensing exam
due to said exam being postponed or cancelled as a result of COVID-
19. Such temporary licenses shall allow a graduate dental applicant
to work under the direct supervision of a licensed supervising dentist
during the period of temporary licensure. Guidelines for the
requirements and procedure for the application of the temporary
license shall be issued by the Georgia Board of Dentistry. Code
Section 43-11-42 and Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R. 150-3-.04(1)(a) shall
be suspended to the extent that they would prohibit the issuance of
such temporary licenses.

IT IS FURTHER
That any purported requirement of the laws of this state, including
but not limited to certain provisions of Code Sections 15-12-67 and

15-12-68, that prohibits remote administration of oaths for grand
jury purposes is hereby suspended.

Page 9 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That any purported requirement of the laws of this state, including
but not limited to certain provisions of Code Section 15-12-66.1, that
prohibits remote attendance of grand jurors and prospective grand
jurors is hereby suspended.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Composite Board of Professional Counselors, Social
Workers, and Marriage and Family Therapists shall be authorized to
issue temporary authorization to practice within the State of Georgia
to practitioners who apply for temporary authorization and are
currently licensed in good standing as a professional counselor,
social worker, or marriage and family therapist by an equivalent
board in another state for the purpose of providing telemental health
service to said practitioner’s existing patient(s) that have relocated to
Georgia as a result of COVID-19. Guidelines for the requirements
and procedure for the application of the temporary authorization
shall be issued by the Georgia Composite Board of Professional
Counselors, Social Workers, and Marriage and Family Therapists.
Code Section 43-10A-7, Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R. 135-3-.01 et seq., Ga.
Comp R. & Regs. R. 135-5-.01 et seqg., and Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R.
135-11-.01 shall be suspended only to the extent that they would
prohibit the issuance of such temporary authorization.

IT IS FURTHER

That for any weapons carry license or renewal license that expires
during the State of Emergency for Continued COVID-19 Economic
Recovery, the application for renewal of such weapons carry license
or renewal license made pursuant to Code Section 16-11-129 shall be
considered to be for a renewal license if the holder of such weapons
carry license or renewal license applies within 120 days after the
expiration date on the face of license.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 40-5-21.1, that limits the time period
for which a noncitizen who holds a Georgia driver’s license or
identification card may be issued a temporary driving permit or
identification card to 120 days from the date of expiration of his or
her valid driver’s license or identification card is hereby suspended
to the extent necessary to allow noncitizen holders of a Georgia
driver’s license or identification card, whose driver’s license or
identification card expired on or after March 14, 2020, who have
already been issued the 120 day temporary driving permit or
identification card permitted under Code Section 40-5-21.1, and have

Page 10 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

filed, or on whose behalf has been filed, a request for an extension
with the United States Department of Homeland Security, or similar
such federal issuing agency, for time to remain lawfully within the
United States and said request is still pending, to apply to the Georgia
Department of Driver Services for one or more additional 120 day
temporary driving permits or identification cards. Any such
temporary driving permit or identification card shall be issued in
accordance with existing procedures established by the Georgia
Department of Driver Services and in the sole discretion of the
Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Driver Services. The
Georgia Department of Driver Services shall be authorized to issue
additional guidelines and procedures for the application and
issuance of said temporary driving permits and identification cards
as needed. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or
otherwise alter any existing identity or lawful status verification
requirements established by the Georgia Department of Driver
Services to comply with federal REAL ID requirements.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519(27), that
graduates of eligible high schools, as defined by Code Section 20-3-
519(6), receive a qualifying standardized college admission test score
prior to high school graduation in order to qualify as a Zell Miller
Scholarship Student is hereby suspended for all such students that
have graduated or will graduate high school in the year 2020 or
between January 1, 2021 and June 30, 2021. The Georgia Student
Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the deadline
by which said students must submit a qualifying standardized college
admission test score for purposes of Zell Miller Scholarship eligibility
to June 30, 2021 for 2020 graduates and to June 30, 2022 for
students that graduate between January 1, 2021 and June 30, 2021;
(b) to establish rules and procedures for retroactively awarding Zell
Miller Scholarships to those students who submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score in accordance with the
extended deadline provided that they met any applicable Zell Miller
Scholarship checkpoint requirements; and (c) to establish rules and
procedures whereunder HOPE scholarship funds issued to incoming
freshman students that later qualify for the Zell Miller Scholarship in
accordance with the extended deadline provided for herein shall be
returned.

IT IS FURTHER
That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519(27), that

graduates of ineligible high schools, meaning ones that do not meet
the definition of Code Section 20-3-519(6), or graduates of home

Page 11 of 19

ORDERED:

study programs meeting the requirements of Code Section 20-2-
690(c) must receive a qualifying standardized college admission test
score prior to high school graduation or home study completion in
order to qualify as Zell Miller Scholarship Students is hereby
suspended for all such students that graduate or complete home
study between March 14, 2020 and June 30, 2021. The Georgia
Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the
deadline by which said students must submit a qualifying
standardized college admission test score for purposes of Zell Miller
Scholarship eligibility to June 30, 2021 for those students that
graduate or complete home study between March 14, 2020 and
December 31, 2020 and to June 30, 2022 for such students that
graduate or complete home study between January 1, 2021 and June
30, 2021; and (b) to establish rules and procedures for retroactively
awarding Zell Miller Scholarships to those students who submit a
qualifying standardized college admission test score in accordance
with the extended deadline provided that they met any applicable
Zell Miller Scholarship checkpoint requirements.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 20-3-519.2, that graduates
of ineligible high schools, meaning those that do not meet the
definition of Code Section 20-3-519(6), students that completed
home study programs meeting the requirements of Code Section 20-
2-690(c), or recipients of general education development (GED)
diplomas receive a score in the seventy-fifth percentile or higher
nationally on a standardized college admission test prior to
graduation, home study completion, or earning the GED in order to
qualify for a HOPE Scholarship is hereby suspended for all such
students that graduate, complete home study, or earn a GED
between March 14, 2020 and June 30, 2021. The Georgia Student
Finance Commission shall be authorized to: (a) extend the deadline
by which said students must submit a qualifying standardized college
admission test score for purposes of HOPE Scholarship eligibility to
June 30, 2021 for those students that graduate, complete home
study, or earn a GED between March 14, 2020 and December 31,
2020 and to June 30, 2022 for such students that graduate, complete
home study, or earn a GED between January 1, 2021 and June 30,
2021; and (b) to establish rules and procedures for retroactively
awarding HOPE Scholarships to those students who submit a
qualifying standardized college admission test score in accordance
with the extended deadline provided that they met any applicable
HOPE Scholarship checkpoint requirements.

Page 12 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That strict compliance with Code Section 45-20-16 and Ga. Comp. R.
& Regs. r. 478-1-.16(12) shall be suspended for the limited purposes
of (2) allowing all employees, as defined by Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r.
478-1-.02(14), but not including temporary employees as defined by
Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 478-1-.02(34), to use up to eight (8) hours of
emergency office closure leave for the purpose of receiving a COVID-
19 vaccine, provided that any employee who uses emergency office
closure leave for the purpose of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine shall
provide proof of said vaccination to his or her supervisor, and (2)
allowing employees who receive a COVID-19 vaccine and experience
negative side effects from said vaccine, the severity of which prohibit
him or her from being able to perform his or her duties of
employment, to use up to sixteen (16) hours of emergency office
closure leave for recovery from said side effects,. provided that any
employee who uses emergency office closure leave for the purpose of
recovering from negative side effects of a COVID-19 vaccine shall
provide documentation of such negative side effects from a medical
provider to his or her supervisor, if so requested.

IT IS FURTHER

That, pursuant to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
guidance, any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1, which limits
the types of vaccines pharmacists or nurses may administer is hereby
suspended to the extent necessary to allow pharmacists and nurses
to administer a COVID-19 vaccination, with or without a vaccine
protocol agreement. Such administration shall be in accordance with
the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
guidelines.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws of regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 26-4-82(e) and Ga. Comp R. & Regs.
R. 480-15-.03(f), which limits the number of pharmacy interns, as
defined by Code Section 26-4-5(19), that a pharmacist may be
assisted by and directly supervise is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow a pharmacist to be assisted by and directly
supervise more than one (1) pharmacy intern at a time for the limited
purpose of supporting COVID-19 vaccination efforts.

IT IS FURTHER
That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including

but not limited to Code Sections 43-11-1 and 43-11-17, which
prohibits licensed dentists, as defined by Code Section 43-11-1(10),

Page 13 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

from administering vaccinations is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow licensed dentists to administer a COVID-19
vaccination for the limited purpose of providing COVID-19 vaccine
administration in partnership with the Georgia Department of Public
Health. Any such vaccine administration shall be in accordance with
the Georgia Department of Public Health guidelines.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-44 and Ga. Comp.
R. & Regs. R. 360-3-.05, that a medical assistant, as defined by Ga.
Comp. R. & Regs. R. 360-3-.05(A)(4), must be supervised by an on-
site physician, a physician assistant, or an advanced practice nurse
in order to administer injections is hereby suspended to the extent
necessary to allow medical assistants to administer the COVID-19
vaccine without direct on-site supervision of a physician, a physician
assistant, or an advanced practice nurse. A medical assistant
administering the COVID-19 vaccine without direct on-site
supervision must be remotely supervised by a physician, as defined
by Code Section 43-34-1(2), a physician assistant, as defined by Code
Section 43-34-102(7), an advanced practice registered nurse, as
defined by Code Section 43-26-3(1.1), or a registered professional
nurse, as defined by Code Section 43-26-3(9), who is available to the
medical assistant by telephone or other electronic means as needed
and must complete training regarding the handling and
administration requirements for the COVID-19 vaccine as
recommended by the Georgia Department of Public Health.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 43-34-26.1(f), that a
licensed practical nurse, as defined by Code Section 43-26-32(5),
must be directly supervised on-site by a registered professional
nurse, as defined by Code Section 43-26-3(9), who is party to a
vaccine protocol agreement in order to administer vaccinations is
hereby suspended to the extent necessary to allow licensed practical
nurses to administer the COVID-19 vaccine without direct on-site
supervision of a registered professional nurse, and with or without a
vaccine protocol agreement. A licensed practical nurse
administering the COVID-19 vaccine without direct on-site
supervision must be remotely supervised by a physician, as defined
by Code Section 43-34-1(2), a physician assistant, as defined by Code
Section 43-34-102(7), an advanced practice registered nurse, as
defined by Code Section 43-26-3(1.1), or a registered professional
nurse, as defined by Code Section 43-26-3(9), who is available to the
licensed practical nurse by telephone or other electronic means as
needed and must complete training regarding the handling and

Page 14 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

administration requirements for the COVID-19 vaccine as
recommended by the Georgia Department of Public Health.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Board of Nursing (hereinafter, “Board”) shall be
authorized, in its sole discretion, to issue temporary permits to
practice nursing, for the sole purpose of administering the COVID-
19 vaccine and monitoring the patient for any adverse reactions in
the subsequent observation period, to practitioners who hold a
license, as such term is defined by Code Section 43-26-3, that has
become lapsed or inactive within the five (5) years prior to the date
of this Executive Order, provided that the licensee was not the
subject of a pending investigation or any public or private
disciplinary action at the time his or her license became lapsed or
inactive. Rules for the requirements and procedure for the
temporary permit application process shall be issued by the Board,
which shall not charge any fee for the issuance of such temporary
permit. Any provision of the laws or regulations of this state that
would prohibit the issuance of such temporary permits, including but
not limited to Code Sections 43-26-2, 43-26-3, and 43-26-10, Ga.
Comp R. & Regs. R. 410-1-.01, and Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R. 410-6-
.01, shall be suspended only to the extent necessary to allow such
temporary permits.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Sections 43-34-23, 43-34-102, and
43-34-103 and Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. R. 360-5-.05, that a physician
assistant, as defined by Code Section 43-34-102(7), may only
perform medical acts approved for utilization by a physician, as
defined by Code Section 43-34-1(2), in a job description approved by
the Georgia Composite Medical Board is hereby suspended to the
extent necessary to allow a physician assistant to administer the
COVID-19 vaccine regardless of whether such medical act is
described in the physician assistant’s job description approved by the
Georgia Composite Medical Board.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Code Section 43-34-103 and Ga. Comp. R. & Regs.
R. 360-5-.05, that prohibits a physician, as defined by Code Section
43-34-1(2), employed by the Georgia Department of Public Health or
any institution thereof, the Georgia Department of Community
Health or any institution thereof, or a local health department, whose
duties are administrative and do not normally include providing
health care to patients from supervising a physician assistant, as

Page 15 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

defined by Code Section 43-34-102(7), who is employed by any of
said entities is hereby suspended to the extent necessary to allow a
physician employed by any of said entities to supervise an employee
physician assistant for the purpose of administering the COVID-19
vaccine and providing other medical acts in support of COVID-19
response efforts.

IT IS FURTHER

That any provision of the laws or regulations of this state, including
but not limited to Ga. Comp, R. & Regs. R. 150-3-.01 and Ga. Comp.
R. & Regs. R. 150-3-0.2-.11, that requires regional dental
examinations for the assessment of clinical competencies to be
performed on human subjects or on manikin-based typodonts using
dental virtual-haptic machine simulation is hereby suspended to the
extent necessary to allow dental license applicants to submit results
from either the Central Regional Dental Testing Service (CRDTS) or
American Board of Dental Examiners (ADEX) manikin-based
typodont examinations, conducted with or without the use of virtual
haptic machine simulation, taken on or after January 1, 2021 to the
Georgia State Board of Dentistry with an application for licensure.
The Board of Dentistry shall accept satisfactory results from any such
exam as meeting the assessment of clinical competencies regional
dental examinations requirement for licensure and, provided all
other requirements of licensure are met, shall issue an unrestricted
dental license to any such applicant. Licenses issued pursuant to this
Order shall not be issued as temporary, provisional, or conditional
licenses unless requested by the applicant or otherwise permitted by
law or regulation.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Department of Community Health is authorized and
directed to implement the suspension of Code Section 31-6-40 where
such suspension would permit capable facilities to expand capacity,
offer services, or make expenditures necessary to assist with the
needs of this State of Emergency.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Commissioner of the Department of Community Health, or
her designees, is authorized and directed to implement waivers of
those rules and regulations necessary to prohibit the prevention,
hindrance, or delay of necessary action to assist or aid in coping with
this State of Emergency.

Page 16 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the
uninterrupted supply of healthcare supplies as well as all other
supplies, goods, and services throughout Georgia. This declared
emergency justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver’s hours of
service) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
suspension will remain in effect for thirty (30) days or until the
emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever is less. Nothing
herein will be construed as an exemption from the Commercial
Driver’s License requirements in 49 C.F.R. 383 and the financial
requirements in 49 C.F.R. 387.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this State of
Emergency will require or allow an ill or fatigued driver to operate a
motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor vehicle carrier that he
or she needs immediate rest will be given at least ten (10) consecutive
hours off-duty before being required to return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any such vehicle traveling
through the State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief
related to this State of Emergency for Petroleum Shortage, which
traverses roadways maintained by the State of Georgia, excluding
interstates, shall not exceed the following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

Page 17 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 47-7-81, Ga. Comp R. &
Regs. R. 513-7-1-.04, and Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R. 513-7-1-.08, that a
volunteer firefighter, as defined by Code Section 47-7-1(12), must
attend a certain amount of group department drills and meetings
each calendar year in order to earn creditable service for said
calendar year is hereby suspended for the year 2021.

IT IS FURTHER

That any requirement of the laws or regulations of this state,
including but not limited to Code Section 47-7-81, Ga. Comp R. &
Regs. R. 513-7-1-.04, and Ga. Comp R. & Regs. R. 513-7-1-.08, that a
volunteer fire department, as defined by Code Section 47-7-1(11),
must offer a certain amount of group department drills and meetings
each calendar year in order for any member of the department to
earn creditable service for said calendar year is hereby suspended for
the year 2021.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall
conflict with the provisions of any previous Executive Order or
Agency Administrative Order, the provisions of this Order shall
control. Further, in the event of any conflict, the provisions of any
Quarantine or Isolation Order issued to a specific person by the
Georgia Department of Public Health shall control.

Page 18 of 19

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That nothing in this Order shall be construed to suspend or limit the
sale, dispensing, or transportation of firearms or ammunition, or any
component thereof.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

This Order does not attempt, nor shall it be construed, to imply that
the Governor, in any instance, has the unilateral authority to
overturn any judicial order, judgment, or decree.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.

This 20t day of September 2021.

Bh h-

GOVERNOR

Page 19 of 19
