THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR TROPICAL DEPRESSION 4

Tropical Depression 4 is forecasted to travel into the eastern Gulf of
Mexico and become Tropical Storm Debby this evening, Saturday,
August 3, 2024, or early on Sunday, August 4, 2024; and

The storm is forecasted to make landfall in the early morning on
Monday, August 5, 2024, along areas of the Florida gulf coast and
portions of the Florida panhandle and is projected to travel
northwest affecting areas in south central Georgia and southeast
coastal Georgia; and

The National Hurricane Center forecasts that this storm may
produce heavy rainfall, storm surge, and flooding in the State of
Georgia; and

This storm has the potential to produce severe impacts to citizens
throughout south central and southeast coastal Georgia; and

Preliminary reports from county emergency management agencies
and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security
Agency indicate a need for assistance in the impacted counties; and

Assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to provide for the
public's safety, protect public and private property, and maintain the
social and economic welfare of the State; and

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations, 49 C.F.R. § 390, et
seq., limit the hours of operators of commercial motor vehicles may
drive; and

49 C.F.R. § 390.23 allows the Governor of a State to suspend these
rules and regulations for up to 30 days if the Governor determines
that an emergency condition exists; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that “[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor" have the force and effect
of law; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with protecting the
citizens of this State, including during a state of emergency; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(1) vests the Governor with the power to
enforce all laws, rules, and regulations relating to emergency
management and to assume direct operational control of all civil
forces and helpers in the state; and

Code Section 38-3-51(c)(4) vests the Governor with the power to
perform and exercise such other functions, powers, and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population; and

In consultation with state emergency preparedness officials, I have
determined that the following actions are necessary and appropriate
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents and
visitors.

Now, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTIONS 38-3-28 AND
38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in the State of Georgia due to the
potential negative impact of Tropical Depression 4.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
affected areas, and the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency
Operations Plan.

IT IS FURTHER
That state agencies shall coordinate all public and emergency
information, activities, releases, and response efforts related to this

emergency with the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency.

Page 2 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Transportation and Georgia
Department of Public Safety shall take all necessary action to ensure
the expeditious movement of utility vehicles, equipment, and
personnel through the State to eliminate power outages.

IT IS FURTHER

That state agencies shall provide sufficient personnel required for the
staffing of the Georgia State Operations Center or other command,
control, and coordination points as may be designated by the
Director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency and shall provide such personnel, vehicles,
equipment, and other resources needed to protect life and property
and to ensure continuation, restoration, and recovery of essential
public services.

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the
uninterrupted supply of goods and services necessary to respond to
this State of Emergency for Tropical Depression 4, including
petroleum products, This declared emergency justifies a suspension
of Part 395 (driver's hours of service) of Title 49 of the Code of
Federal Regulations. The suspension will remain in effect for thirty
(30) days or until the emergency condition ceases to exist, whichever
is less. Nothing herein will be construed as an exemption from the
Commercial Driver's License requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 383 and
the financial requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 387.

IT 1S FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this State of
Emergency for Tropical Depression 4 will require or allow an ill or
fatigued driver to operate a motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a
motor vehicle carrier that he or she needs immediate rest will be
given at least ten (10) consecutive hours off-duty before being
required to return to service.

IT IS FURTHER
That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the

State of Georgia, for the purposes of providing relief related to this
State of Emergency, which traverses roadways maintained by the

Page 3 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-635-8176 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at this website: www.gaprospermits.com.

IT IS FURTHER
Pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to goods

and services necessary for preparation, response, and recovery
activities for this State of Emergency for Tropical Depression 4,

Page 4 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

including motor fuel, diesel fuel, and other petroleum products,
would be detrimental to the social and economic welfare of the
citizens of this State and is therefore prohibited.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER

That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or
supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the
United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

Ir 1S FURTHER

That this Order does not suspend operation of any state or federal
law or regulation, except as specifically described herein.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.
IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of the Order shall become effective upon signature and
shall be valid for a period of five (5) days, expiring Thursday, August
8, 2024, at 11:59 P.M., unless this State of Emergency is renewed by
the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

Page 5 of 6

This 3rd day of August 2024.

VERNOR

Page 6 of 6
