THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

The quality of our system of administering justice is determined by the
quality of the judicial officers elected and appointed to serve within our
judicial system; and

It is the responsibility and the duty of the Governor under Ga. Const. art.
VI, § 7, { II] to appoint duly qualified persons to fill vacancies in the courts
arising during the Governor’s term of office; and

It is essential that the Governor fills judicial vacancies with men and women
of the highest capacity whom by temperament, ability and integrity will
freely, impartially, and independently interpret the law and administer
justice; and

Judicial candidates demonstrating excellence should be drawn from a
cross-section of our community, reflecting the diversity of our citizenry; and

A non-partisan, non-political judicial nominating commission composed of
outstanding lawyers and laypersons in aid to the discretion reposed in the
Governor, drawn from all quarters of the State and a cross-section of its
diverse population best ensures the highest quality of judicial
appointments.

NOW, THEREFORE, BY VIRTUE OF THE POWER VESTED IN ME AS
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That there is created the Judicial Nominating Commission for the State of
Georgia. The Commission shall make nominations to fill vacancies on all
courts of record in the State. The Commission created by this order shall
supersede Executive Order 10.26.21.01.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Commission shall consist of members that have demonstrable
knowledge of the judicial system and experience in the needs and operation

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

of Georgia courts. Members who are members of the Bar shall have
appropriate experience relevant with the courts as former judges, former
magistrates, trial counsel, government counsel, or corporate counsel and
shall be members of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing. Members
who are not members of the Bar shall be familiar with the attributes that
best qualify a person for appointment as a judicial officer.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Judicial Nominating Commission shall consist of
members appointed by the Governor to serve at the pleasure of the
Governor. All members shall be residents of the State of Georgia.
Appointments shall be made with a view toward equitable geographic
representation and shall reflect the diversity of the State’s citizenry.

IT IS FURTHER

That in the event of a judicial vacancy, the Commission shall advertise the
vacancy and elicit applications of qualified persons to fill the vacancy; meet
and consider persons for submission as nominees according to merit and
law and shall recommend to the Governor individuals which it finds
qualified for each judiciary vacancy.

ITIS FURTHER

That all written communications by the Commission or any member with
any applicant or with any person or entity concerning an applicant shall be
limited to Commission stationery. No law firm or law practice letterhead
stationery shall be used in connection with any such communication.

ITIS FURTHER

That the members of the State Bar of Georgia shall at all times act in
accordance with professional and ethical standards set forth by the Bar. All
members shall at all times act according to the highest professional and
ethical standards.

IT IS FURTHER

That Mark Middleton, Esq., Vincent Russo, Esq., and the Honorable Shawn
LaGrua are appointed as Co-Chairs of the Commission to serve at the
pleasure of the Governor. Vincent Russo will be responsible for the record
keeping and operation of the commission.

IT IS FURTHER

ORDERED: That the following individuals are hereby appointed as members to the
Georgia Judicial Nominating Commission:

Vincent Russo
Mark Middleton
Shawn LaGrua
Michael P. Boggs
Kristi Connell
Lance Cooper
Tye Darland
Walter “Walt” Davis
Sheetal Desai
Charles E. Evans, Jr.
T. Mills Fleming
Patrick Flynn
Robert S. Highsmith, Jr.
Andrew “Drew” Hill
Soo Hong
Jamie Inagawa
Allan Kamensky
Anne Kaufold-Wiggins
Benjamin Land
Anh Le
James B. Manley, Jr.
Quentin Marlin
Harold Melton
Shondeana C, Morris
Brooke Newby

Natalie Paine

ORDERED:

Samir J. Patel
Jonathan Pope
Haynes Studstill
Darrell Sutton

W. Ryan Teague
Pythias “Pete” Temesgen
Frank Turner, Jr.
Richard Valladares
Holly Veal
Shannon Wallace
Josh Waters

W. Thomas Worthy

IT IS FURTHER

That members of the Commission shall serve without compensation but are
entitled to receive reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties for the Commission. Such
reimbursement shall be expended from funds appropriated to or otherwise
available from the Office of the Governor of the State of Georgia.

Any inconsistent previous order is hereby rescinded.

This |g day of December 2024.

Bil he

GOVERNOR
