EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

REGARDING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE OPERATIONS DURING THE

ORDERED:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR HURRICANE IDALIA

PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND THE AUTHORITY
VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, IT IS
HEREBY

That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the
State of Georgia for the purposes of providing relief related to the
State of Emergency for Hurricane Idalia, declared by Executive
Order 08.29.23.01, which traverses roadways maintained by the
State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with

five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches

and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined
in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-624-7700 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at https://gapros.dot.ga.gov/.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature and shall remain
effective until the State of Emergency for Hurricane Idalia, declared
by Executive Order 08.29.23.01, expires.

This 29th day of August 2023.

Blh-

GOVERNOR

Page 2 of 2
