EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

ORDERING THE GEORGIA DATA ANALYTIC CENTER TO FACILITATE DATA-SHARING

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

BETWEEN EXECUTIVE STATE AGENCIES

The Governor, through the Office of Planning and Budget,
encourages comprehensive and coordinated planning and
programming of the affairs of state government. Code Section 45-12-
173; and

The Office of Planning and Budget is “the principal state agency for
statistical coordination and standardization.” Code Section 45-12-
171; and

The Georgia Data Analytic Center (“GDAC”) was established in 2019
to improve “public health and the safety, security, and well-being of
Georgia residents” through data sharing and analysis under
oversight of the Office of Planning and Budget. Code Section 45-12-
152; and

The Governor may “prescribe and direct the use of such forms of
accounts, records, and reports as may be necessary to further
efficiency.” Code Section 45-12-72 (b); and

The Georgia Constitution vests the Governor with the chief executive
powers of the State and directs the Governor to take care that the
laws are faithfully executed. GA. Const. Art. V, § II, J I-II; and

Upon consideration, I find access to data and cooperation with
requests for data between executive state agencies to be necessary for
the efficient functioning of the executive branch.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 45-12-72, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

That the following definitions shall apply to the provisions of this

A. “Agency” (or plural, “Agencies”) means any agency, authority,

board, bureau, commission, department, division, office, or
other entity of the executive branch of state government
whether established by the Official Code of Georgia,
administrative rule or regulation, or executive order. This
term shall not include: the legislative or judicial branches of
state government; any political subdivision; the University
System of Georgia and its Board of Regents; or any other
agency, authority, board, bureau, commission, department,
division, office, or other entity established by the Constitution
of the State of Georgia.

. “Agency Data” means any information created, received,

maintained, or stored by, or otherwise in the control of, an
Agency which is stored in a structured format with multiple
fields or in a database. This term shall not include individual
files or documents stored electronically.

. “Data-Sharing Agreement” means a written agreement

allowing one or more Agencies to access, analyze, or otherwise
use the Agency Data of another Agency. This term shall not
include any agreement between Agencies for the routine
transfer of Agency Data necessary to carry out required
functions.

. “Data-Sharing Request” means a request by one or more

Agencies to enter a Data-Sharing Agreement with another
Agency.

. “GDAC” means the Georgia Data Analytic Center established

pursuant to Code Section 45-12-151.

IT IS FURTHER

That GDAC shall establish a template Data-Sharing Request, Data-
Sharing Agreement, and data format for commonly collected Agency

IT IS FURTHER

Any Agency requesting to enter a Data-Sharing Agreement with
another Agency shall transmit a Data-Sharing Request to the
administrative head of the Agency; provided, however, that nothing

Page 2 of 4

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

in this Order shall apply to agreements for the transfer of Agency
Data necessary to carry out agency functions.

IT IS FURTHER

That following a Data-Sharing Request, the Agencies shall execute a
Data-Sharing Agreement that allows for the exchange of Agency Data
to the greatest extent possible, but under no circumstances shall
create a legal obligation or entitlement. A copy of the executed Data-
Sharing Agreement shall be delivered to GDAC. If the Agencies are
unable to execute a Data-Sharing Agreement, the Agencies shall
notify GDAC of the same.

IT IS FURTHER

That upon request, GDAC shall assist Agencies with making Data-
Sharing Requests, executing Data-Sharing Agreements, and carrying
out the obligations set forth under a Data-Sharing Agreement.

IT IS FURTHER

That a Data-Sharing Agreement may include provisions necessary to
protect the confidentiality of Agency Data. Agency Data shared
pursuant to this Order shall remain in the legal possession of the
Agency from which the Agency Data originated. Agency Data which
is exempt from disclosure pursuant to Code Section 50-18-72 shall
not become subject to disclosure as a result of being subject to a
Data-Sharing Agreement.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Governor, or his designee, shall resolve disputes between
Agencies regarding Data-Sharing Requests.

A. In the event of such a dispute, GDAC shall notify the
Governor’s Executive Counsel of such dispute and transmit
the Data-Sharing Request to the Governor’s Executive
Counsel.

B. The Governor, or his designee, shall review the Data-Sharing
Request and may request additional information from the
Agencies involved.

C. After such review, the Governor, or his designee, shall issue a

final determination with regard to the dispute. If such final
determination directs the Agencies to execute a Data-Sharing

Page 3 of 4

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

Agreement, the Agencies shall execute such Data-Sharing
Agreement and comply with its obligations in good faith.

Provided, however, that this procedure shall not apply to requests for
data made by GDAC itself, in which case the provisions of Code
Section 45-12-153 shall apply.

IT IS FURTHER

That an Agency must terminate or withdraw from a Data-Sharing
Agreement executed pursuant to this Order at the request of the
Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER
That all provisions of this Order shall become effective upon

signature.

This _| st day of September 2023.

Ble

GOVERNOR

Page 4 of 4
