Sia, Nrerissin’

Y= =, Y
CNEKLOPNNOETSS ye

THE STATE OF GEORGIA

EXECUTIVE ORDER

BY THE GOVERNOR:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:
WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR WINTER WEATHER

The National Weather Service predicts a significant winter weather
event is likely to occur across North and Central Georgia on Friday,
January 10, 2025, with impacts lingering through the weekend; and

Projected precipitation beginning the morning of Friday, January 10,
2025, through the morning of Saturday, January 11, 2025,
accompanied by severe cold temperatures creates the potential for
snow and ice accumulation, including black ice on roadways,
throughout North and Central Georgia; and

Wind gusts of up to 20 miles per hour are projected for early
Saturday morning and may exacerbate potential property damage,
including downed trees and powerlines; and

Potential snow and ice accumulation, fallen trees, and downed
powerlines may render Georgia’s roadways hazardous or impassible
in affected areas, isolating persons and residences from access to
essential public services; and

Assistance from the State of Georgia is necessary to provide for the
public's safety and mitigate potential consequences of this winter
weather; and

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations, 49 C.F.R. § 390, et
seq., limit the hours that operators of commercial motor vehicles
may drive; and

49 C.F.R. § 390.23 allows the Governor of a State to suspend these
rules and regulations for up to fourteen (14) days if the Governor
determines that an emergency condition exists; and

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

On December 29, 2024, due to the Passing of President James Earl
Carter, Jr., | issued Executive Order 12.29.24.02, declaring a State of
Emergency for the Passing of President Carter for Sumter County,
Georgia; and

This Order shall create a coexisting state of emergency in the State of
Georgia with the State of Emergency for the Passing of President
Carter described in the immediately preceding paragraph; and

The responses by the State to this State of Emergency for Winter
Weather and the State of Emergency for the Passing of President
Carter should proceed simultaneously, without one impeding the
other; and

The Governor is vested with the emergency powers cited herein as
the Chief Executive of this State; and

As Chief Executive, the Governor is tasked with protecting the
citizens of this State, including during a state of emergency; and

Code Section 38-3-51 vests the Governor with the authority to bring
emergency situations under control by issuing orders, rules, and
regulations to protect the safety and welfare of the public; and

Code Section 38-3-28 provides that "[a]ll orders, rules, and
regulations promulgated by the Governor" have the force and effect
of law; and

In consultation with state emergency preparedness officials, I have
determined that the following actions are necessary and appropriate
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of Georgia's residents and
visitors.

NOW, THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO CODE SECTION 38-3-51, AND
THE AUTHORITY VESTED IN ME AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA, IT IS HEREBY

That a State of Emergency exists in in the State of Georgia due to the
potential severe winter weather event affecting the State beginning
January 10, 2025.

IT IS FURTHER

That the State of Emergency declared by this Order shall coexist with
the State of Emergency for the Passing of President Carter declared

Page 2 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

by Executive Order 12.29.24.02. The existence or termination of one
shall not impinge the other.

IT IS FURTHER

That any orders derivative of or appurtenant to this Order addressing
this State of Emergency for Winter Weather shall not infringe,
overturn, or in any way amend any orders that have been issued for
the purpose of responding to the State of Emergency for the Passing
of President Carter declared by Executive Order 12.29.24.02.

IT IS FURTHER

That all resources of the State of Georgia be made available to assist
in preparation, response, and recovery activities throughout the
affected areas, and the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency shall activate the Georgia Emergency
Operations Plan.

IT IS FURTHER

That state agencies shall coordinate all public and emergency
information, activities, releases, and response efforts related to this
emergency with the Georgia Emergency Management and
Homeland Security Agency.

IT IS FURTHER

That the Georgia Department of Transportation and Georgia
Department of Public Safety shall take all necessary action to ensure
the expeditious movement of utility vehicles, equipment, and
personnel through the State to eliminate power outages.

IT IS FURTHER

That state agencies shall provide sufficient personnel required for the
staffing of the Georgia State Operations Center or other command,
control, and coordination points as may be designated by the
Director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland
Security Agency and shall provide such personnel, vehicles,
equipment, and other resources needed to protect life and property
and to ensure continuation, restoration, and recovery of essential
public services.

Page 3 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

IT IS FURTHER

That the federal rules and regulations limiting hours that operators
of commercial vehicles may drive are suspended to ensure the
uninterrupted supply of goods and services necessary to respond to
this State of Emergency for Winter Weather, including petroleum
products, propane, and heating fuels. This declared emergency
justifies a suspension of Part 395 (driver's hours of service) of Title
49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The suspension will remain in
effect for fourteen (14) days or until the emergency condition ceases
to exist, whichever is less. Nothing herein will be construed as an
exemption from the Commercial Driver's License requirements in 49
C.F.R. § 383 and the financial requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 387.

IT IS FURTHER

That no motor carrier operating under the terms of this State of
Emergency for Winter Weather will require or allow an ill or fatigued
driver to operate a motor vehicle. A driver who notifies a motor
vehicle carrier that he or she needs immediate rest will be given at
least ten (10) consecutive hours off-duty before being required to
return to service.

IT IS FURTHER

That weight, height, and length for any vehicle traveling through the
State of Georgia, for the purposes of providing relief related to this
State of Emergency, which traverses roadways maintained by the
State of Georgia, excluding interstates, shall not exceed the
following:

A. A maximum gross vehicle weight for vehicles equipped with
five (5) weight-bearing axles, with an outer bridge span of not
less than fifty-one (51) feet, shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of ninety-five (95) thousand pounds, a maximum
width of ten (10) feet, and an overall length of one hundred
(100) feet. Continuous travel is authorized with the proper
escorts.

B. Ifthe width of said vehicle exceeds eight (8) feet six (6) inches
and is traveling after daylight, defined as thirty (30) minutes
before sunset to thirty (30) minutes after sunrise, the
transporter is required to have a vehicle front and a rear
escort/amber light when traveling on a two-lane roadway and
a vehicle rear escort when traveling on a four-lane highway.
Transporters are responsible for ensuring that they have
proper oversize signs, markings, flags, and escorts as defined

Page 4 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

in the Georgia Department of Transportation Rules and
Regulations.

IT IS FURTHER

That commercial vehicles operating outside the normal weight,
height, and length restrictions under the authority of this State of
Emergency shall be issued permits by the Georgia Department of
Public Safety. Said vehicles shall be subject to any special conditions
the Georgia Department of Public Safety may list on applicable
permits. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to allow
any vehicle to exceed weight limits posted for bridges and like
structures, nor shall anything in this Executive Order be construed
to relieve compliance with restrictions other than those specified in
this Order or from any statute, rule, order, or other legal requirement
not specifically waived herein.

Oversize permits may be issued by the Georgia Department of Public
Safety, Motor Carrier Compliance Division, during normal business
hours, Monday through Friday by calling 404-635-8176 or through
the Georgia Permitting and Routing Optimization System online
portal at this website: www.gaprospermits.com.

IT IS FURTHER

Pursuant to Code Section 10-1-393.4, price gouging related to goods
and services necessary for preparation, response, and recovery
activities for this State of Emergency for Winter Weather, including
petroleum products, propane, and heating fuels, would be
detrimental to the social and economic welfare of the citizens of this
State and is therefore prohibited.

IT IS FURTHER

That if one or more of the provisions contained in this Order shall be
held to be invalid, in violation of the Georgia Constitution, in
violation of Georgia law, or unenforceable in any respect, such
invalidity, violation, or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provisions of this Order, but, in such case, this Order shall be
construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had
never been contained within the Order.

IT IS FURTHER
That no provision of this Order shall limit, infringe, suspend, or

supplant any judicial order, judgment, or decree issued pursuant to
the laws or constitution of this State or the laws or constitution of the

Page 5 of 6

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

ORDERED:

United States, nor shall any person use any provision this Order as a
defense to an action in violation of a judicial order, judgment, or
decree by any court created pursuant to the laws or constitution of
this State or the laws or constitution of the United States.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order does not suspend operation of any state or federal
law or regulation, except as specifically described herein.

IT IS FURTHER

The Office of the Governor may continue to issue guidance on the
scope of this Order as needed through communication media,
including social media, without need for further Executive Orders.
IT IS FURTHER

All provisions of this Order shall become effective upon signature
and shall be valid for a period of five (5) days, expiring Tuesday,
January 14, 2025, at 11:59 P.M., unless this State of Emergency is
renewed by the Governor.

IT IS FURTHER

That this Order shall be effective upon signature.

This 9th day of January 2025.

Bil he

GOVERNOR

Page 6 of 6
